
Give up dieting forever! I have and I am now losing weight eating anything, yes anything, I want.  Can you imagine eating anything you want and not being frightened?  This is the book that will set you free, this is the book you need. Has it struck you that dieting is unnatural?  Don't eat this, don't eat that, count this, count that, measure this, measure that, I can't have this, and I can't have that, ad nauseum.  Which diet guru are you going to believe?  Can you reall stay with a low-carb diet or a high-carb diet or calorie counting the rest of your life?  Most importantly, do you want to stick to a restricted diet the rest of your life?  The first day of my new eating pattern I ate two meals.  The second day, I woke up with no hunger, no reactive hypoglycemia (nausea and shakes from hunger)!  What a miracle.  I have shifted to an apple for lunch and anything I want for dinner (I love to cook and desire to eat with my family).  At maintenance, I may end up eating two meals a day; I don't know and it certainly isn't something to Aquot;worryAquot; about.  The diet gurus that say one meal will cause you to overeat later, etc., are wrong, wrong, wrong.  Maybe it sounds theoretically correct, but it does not work that way.  Listen, I have found out the less you eat, the less you eat.  I do eat to satisfaction at dinner and it does not stretch my stomach.  By the way, Dr. Dean Edell stated on his radio show that he only eats one meal a day himself.  He says there is NO scientific proof that X number of meals are better than one.  Also, I want you dear readers to know that I have four friends who are Aquot;naturallyAquot; slim (adult women - 30's and 40's). Two of them eat a small amount for lunch (like a small hamburger) and a good dinner (they are sizes 3 and 6).  One gal eats at 2:30 PM, a huge amount, and a snack at night (she is size 7).  One gal does nibble all day, like a potato chip here and there (no thank you, personally).  Oh, and a relative who is size 4 eats breakfast and dinner, never lunch.  Remember my comeback for sabotagers:  Aquot;Slim people don't need much food, even if we exercise.  Who says a certain number of meals a day are better than one or two?Aquot;  The only negative thing I have to say about Diane's book is that I felt she took scripture out of context.  God fed the Israelites manna 2X a day; they were supernaturally filled and nourished.  He does not feed anyone manna today.  Also, biblical gluttony is not overeating (I do believe a lifestyle of overeating is sin, but not gluttony).  Biblical gluttony refers to the Roman-type parties where people overate, overdrank and went on to commit more sin.  On the positive side, I do believe Diane tries steer away from legalism and authoritarianism.  This book is an answer to prayer.  You won't be sorry if you buy this book
