
I have bought many books in my life, but Randy Gage's "Why You're Dumb, Sick and Broke" is the first time I ever bought a book with a parental advisory warning for explicit language. Gage does things a little differently than anyone else, which is something I quickly discovered when reading this book. This book is brash, to the point and filled with insight and inspiration. I thought that Gage presented his points in a well thought out manner that really took the establishment on head on.

Many points presented in the book are in other personal development books. However, I don't know of any book that has all these points in one book. Even Gage himself admits in an interview that this is a combination of Think and Grow Rich, The Secret, Ayn Rand and several other books and cd's.

A lot of it you have heard before, like if you say you are broke, then you will always be broke. However, I didn't realize how much the mainstream media and the political establishment are contributing to our negative, broke thoughts. Most frightening of all, I learned why the establishment needs us to be broke in order to keep their power. I am taking Randy's lead and watching less TV, especially the news. That's the worst of all!

There is also a nice introduction to Libertarianism and the works of Ayn Rand. As a Libertarian myself, I was delighted to see this included in the book. With recent reports circulating about Britain on the verge of becoming a police state, this warning about big government couldn't have come at a more appropriate time.

As expected, Randy does make a plug for MLM, but this is by no means an MLM book. The MLM plug is just a few short pages. However, it is still a nice resource for MLM people to use for third party credibility. He also mentioned real estate and information marketing as good businesses as well. I must be smart, healthy and rich, as I am already involved in all three.

I found myself nodding in agreement to this book. I also found a lot of places where I was thinking, "Oh, I'm not the only one who this this way. Why hasn't this been mentioned before in the press?" Other times, I thought, "Oh my god, I am being really manipulated here." While he was "preaching to the choir" with me, I'm sure that many people with more "mainstream" views will feel more challenged reading this book.

Bottom line, if you love MLM get 10 copies of this book, if you support the Libertarians, get 10 copies of this book. If you are like me and love them both, get 25 copies.

About the author
Carlos Scarpero is the host of the Network Marketing Minute podcast and the creator of the Success Duplicator downline building system. [...
