
Reading WAR AND PEACE is an immense undertaking, which has less to do with page numbers and more to do with addressing some very fundamental questions about what it means to be human. The first time that I read it, I read it as a novel, for entertainment. Years later, I picked it up again but this time my task was more ambitious. I sought to know how Tolstoy could justify the ways of God to man.  During this second reading, I was able to examine the Russian names, characters, events, and historical occurrences which occupied me the first time through. What I saw was that each of the hundreds of individuals was very much linked to the concluding Epilog, which I scanted then but studied now. Most readers of WAR AND PEACE find this part heavy going, which it certainly is, but in it, Tolstoy creates a key for unlocking the reasons who we are and why we do things the way we do. In essence, each human being is like an atom of gas floating in space, with one atom colliding at random with another, but when a sufficient number act in concert, such as Napoleon's invasion of Russia, their force is irresistable. When Tolstoy introduces world leaders like Napoleon or the Tsar, he does so in such a way as to depict them as no more than one more free floating atom, who can not see the Big Picture any more clearly than anyone else can.  The tragic decisions of these misguided leaders are based on a collective illusion that they and they alone can use divinely inspired reason to affect lasting change.  But when human beings act as if they acknowledge that their powers of reason are both limited and self-deluding--as when General Kutuzov relies on looking inward toward instinct rather than outward toward other circling and equally misguided atoms, then they are drawing closer to a universal "one" with nature.  This "one" Tolstoy invests with religious overtones as synonymous with God. Tolstoy does not say that human beings are preprogrammed robots held in thrall by that "one" or any other deity, but he does say that history, time, and man are all part of a universal flow that swoops along all in its path, and that if any intelligent atom wishes to know which way the flow is likely to go, then he might wish to emulate General Kutuzov, who at least knows that humbleness in the face of chaos is the first step in finding a rational basis for who we are and where we are going. 
