
For those that are avid readers of journalistic works such as this one, you would absolutely enjoy every moment rummaging through the pages.  Statistics are provided but never to the point of being too dry and too boring for the readers to read through.  The writer endeavours to shed lights for us ramifications of China and its muscle power.  Instead of branding China as a villain, we need to understand that without support from purchasers who are looking for the cheapest bargains, China wouldn't be where it is now.  Wal-Mart is covered in detail.  The writer gives us a projection that if car manufacturing industry is heading the same direction of products manufacturing, it's only a matter of time before prices for cars would plummet quite considerably in the future when China has perfected its manufacturing bases just as Japan and South Korea had done before it.  Then, there's another discussion about the shifting of population from countryside into urban centres where manufacturing bases are located, and how China is able to sustain the supply of cheap labour.  China's progress isn't simply detrimental to other countries.  On contrary, it benefits them as well.  For example, Australia is having a boom right now due to exportation of natural resources to China.  With increase of living standard in China, Chinese needs more nutritious food.  As China couldn't provide enough, United States particularly the Middle States are enjoying a boom in supplying food to the Middle Kingdom.  Then, there are also discussions about other foreign powers keeping United States in check by siding with China, and also the love and hate relationship between USA and China of controlling the currencies so as to keep the interest rates at an attractive rate to facilitate growth in China and so forth.  Whilst nobody knows for certain the exact figures of information provided (since China has this tendency to manipulate figures since the beginning of time), suffice to say that the book explains how the mechanism works and allowing us to have an insight of how international trade ticks.  Yes, some reviewers are fastidious and highly critical of figures provided by the writer but ultimately, I think they are missing the points.  What's crucial from this book is that we need to understand better about China and learning how to work alongside it in order to share the gains it would garner over the years to come.  Highly recommended
