

	Were someone to write a biography of Carl Hiassin in fifty years it is hard to imagine that he or she wouldn't focus on the author's latest triumph, Skinny Dip. It is one of his seminal achievements. The book simply shines with humor, well drawn characters, action and as usual everyone gets their just desserts. It is also one of his smoothest rides. One gets the feeling that Hiassin was very confident in every sentence that he wrote.
	Here is an overview that will stimulate readers' interest Hiassin's. The book opens with Chaz trying to kill his wife by flinging her over the rail of their cruise ship, but by some twists and turns and luck Joey survives long enough to be rescued. Much of the rest of the book circles around the characters interactions and relationships as Joey and her team pursue vengeance. By the midpoint of the novel Chaz is already an emotional wreck and it doesn't look like Joey is about to let up any time soon. 
	The moral backbone of the novel is twofold. One is the pitting of the Everglades Forest and her defenders against big business and her pollutants. The Everglades is quickly turning from pristine swamp into another type of ecosystem entirely and many Floridians want to prevent the remaining land from being destroyed, which means millions of dollars loss to the big agricultural business. Hiassin's two segments on the real life plight of this swamp standout a bit apart from the book, but also lends it a feeling of seriousness.
	And two is the pitting of criminals against victims who aren't going to take it anymore.  Hiassin is at his when he reapetedly refers to the attempted murder as an insult to Joey. As most survivors of violent crime can ascertain there is a severe indignity attached to one's helplessness. 
	There are six main characters in the book: Joey and her horny husband Chaz, Joey's rescuer Mick who is a kind and eccentric ex-policeman who lives alone on an island, Joey's brother, a rich expatriate who raises sheep in New Zealand, Mr. Hammernut, the owner of a large agricultural empire and Tool, the books muscled goon who undergoes a moral transformation. The small group of sub-characters is entertainingly populated in part with a hermit who lives in the swamp, a street-tough hairdresser, a slap-happy senior and a cowardly lawyer.  
	Though similar elements live in many of Hiassin's works his books never feel like he has used a formula to create them more easily. This can't be said for all or most of crime writers and should be accredited to Hiassin's love for storytelling, his skill as a plot weaver and his ability to evoke so many different emotions. In this line of thought this reviewer took note of the characters subtle (except for Tool) character changes throughout the book. Joey for example seemed learn a bit more restraint as she calmed down a little and the same can be said even for characters that have appeared in some of Hiassin's previous works (Mick).
	Hiassin has never been a fan of superficial materialism, but the issue is slightly complicated by Skinny Dip and does not simply fall into place along character axes. While the villains all crave money some of the heroes are loaded too. Joey maintains a very frugal existence considering her $ 13 million trust, but her brother spends lavishly. Joey's rescuer on the other hand lives on a disability check. One may wonder if the only difference between Chaz and his wife is that she never had to work or hustle for a buck, but there is one other way in which the enemies contrast and that is the way they treat their associates. Chaz is continuously scrambling for something and in his desperation - be it for sex, money, or escape - uses other people as tools rather than relating to them as equals. On the other hand, Joey has a good sense of humor and she enjoys the companionship of her pals.
	Like most of Hiassin's work this book is not an overly violent one. Although it begins with an attempted murder, the event is quite peaceful. There is no struggle, no blood and the victim, Joey, does not die. 
	After reading Skinny Dip I immediately lent it to my best friend Katie who has not been able to put it down. So, potential readers be warned: Like Katie you may not be able to get any work done for a day or two, but the time is not wasted on Hiassin's best work to date. One comes away gaining not only pleasant memories of laughs and smiles, but also the feeling that one has poured one more drop into the bucket of our minds that we must fill in order to make this world a better place. In short, Carl Hiassin puts us in touch with the good guys in ourselves
