
I've been staring at a copy of Thomas Friedman's 'From Beirut to Jerusalem' on my shelf for nearly a year now, meaning to read it but always drawn to something else.  Finally, recent events demanded that I learn more and I finally pulled it down, dusted it off, and read it.  I'm so glad I did, especially now.

The book is not the easiest read, since it delves into a lot of regional history and politics, which gets complex no matter what you do.  Friedman's writing style, however, goes a long way towards making the text quite accessible for just about anyone, and his unique perspective on the events that he witnessed and covered in his role as a journalist keeps it interesting and always relevant.

What I really appreciated about the way Friedman presents his story is that it really is HIS story.  He is obviously a man gifted with a keen sense of observation, and so he picks up on many details others might miss, such as the faces of Israeli soldiers or the opinions of Lebanese taxi drivers.  But still, the story is told mainly through events he observed directly -- he just happened to be there for many of the events that shaped the Middle East as it is today.  He tells it in both large and small terms, from some of the politicians he met and interviewed to discussions he had with neighbors and colleagues while living in the region.  The result is that you get the broad spectrum of what was going on in the region, particularly in the 1980's, a critical decade of events.

I also appreciated Friedman's fairness throughout the book. From his perspective on the Lebanese government to the Palestinian intifada to the Israeli occupation to the American involvement in the region, he deals with all of the players fairly, whether big or small, famous or unknown.  That's not to say he doesn't have criticisms -- certainly, he has plenty to say about everyone...but one is never left with the feeling that he has been too harsh on one side and lenient on the other.  Friedman's willingness to observe with an unbiased eye and ear is key to the strength of this book.

Even with the newer added chapters, dealing with the late 1980's and early 1990's, this book cannot be considered a "complete" history of the Middle East, or even of the events of the last 50 years.  However, it is not meant to be that, I think.  What Friedman has documented here is an excellent primer for anyone interested in learning more about how we got to where we are today in Lebanon and Israel and Palestine.  The book is not an end in itself, but for someone who wants to learn more about the region that is in the news almost every day, this is an excellent place to start.

The only way to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past is to learn from them. As such, 'From Beirut to Jerusalem' should be required reading today
