
"By a hypnotism that defies explanation--at least by a non-German--Hitler held the allegiance and trust of this remarkable people to the last.  It was inevitable that they would follow him blindly, like dumb cattle but also with a touching faith and even an enthusiasm that raised them above the animal herd, over the precipice to the destruction of the nation."

This remarkable book is based principally on the captured German documents, the interrogations and testimony at the Nuremberg trials of German military officers and civilian officials, the diaries and memoirs which some of them have left, and on Shirer's experience in the Third Reich.  Shirer became one of the most respected journalists in wartime Europe.

The book is exhaustive and detailed with extensive notes and bibliography.  A bit of patience is needed to get through the dialect, often quoting Mein Kampf.  Shirer brings forth wonderful descriptions of the people who played a role in those troubled times.  The individual battles are not detailed, so one will need to refer to other sources for a more detailed look at these battles and horrors that ensued.  This is an important book for those interested in Germany and life in the Third Reich at this time. 

The Reich rises with a quick run through of Hitler's youth and the German history, then the politics and Hitler's megalomania that led to national socialism and the rise to dictatorship.  The Treaty of Versais and the fall of the mark lead to Germany's economic fall, allowing for the people to welcome in a dictatorship, a new messiah by deceit.  The military buildup could now begin.   The coups to overthrow Hitler and the Nazis had already failed and will continue to fail throughout the war.  For the officers it was either death by Hitler or death by fighting.  The massacres of the Russians began soon after the invasion of the East.  The French and other countries were also caught up in the massacre, and William gives us the eyewitness reports.  The "Jewish cleansing" started soon after the nazis took over their first countries. The Nazis kept developing more and more efficient means of extermination and experimentation.  There is an exhaustive lead up to the start of W.W.II, the invasion of Poland.  There was freighting information discovered on what would have been in store for Britain if invaded, not to mention the world and the slaughter of Russia.  The Nazi's pinnacle arrives at about 2/3 of the way through the book where the fall begins with the Allied advance.

It took military action eventually to stop Hitler's "New world order", not the people.  The lack of doing anything to stop Hitler from walking into the Rhineland should not be forgotten.  Does not the blame fall partly on the people, Chamberlain, and the military generals?  Maybe if more would have read Mein Kampf, and not disregarded it's contents millions would not have lost their lives.  The Nazi propaganda took over the press, and soon indoctrinated the German people.  There were many opportunities to stop Hitler by France and Britain early on.  Have we not learned anything from the past?  Is there not a parallel in our country?

"The Germans imposed the Nazi tyranny on themselves."

Hegel was one of the many influences on Hitler and Marx. Hegel and Marxism is still very much alive today in humanism, nationalism, "supreme state", racism,  and mysticism
