
Book number three in the Outlander trilogy, the fantasy historical romance of the time traveling Claire Fraser, has Claire re-unite with her 18th century husband, Jamie, who she left before the battle of Culloden in Dragonfly in Amber.  A time travel trip through the stones is once more necessary and Claire has to leave her beloved daughter Brianna behind. 

This trip is successful and Claire is now plunged into the complicated life of Jamie, who has survived the battle but now is dealing with the post-uprising difficulties of the Scottish.  While Claire is involved with the difficulties of her re-union with Jamie, there is also a series of mysterious and violent murders in Edinborough, and the kidnapping of Jamie's nephew.  Claire and Jamie sail the high seas and encounter pirates, voodoo and slave uprisings in the Caribbean.

This colorful third installment in the series at times seems like it tries a little too hard to have Claire and Jamie caught up in every possible adventure of the time period.  Nevertheless the foundation of the solid characters created and nurtured by Gabaldan weather the slightly torrid escapades of this timeless romantic couple.  One of the new characters is a bit flimsy and caricatured; the giggling, bouncy, foot-worshipping Chinaman Mr. Willoughby.  Although he later proves to be more substantial than his intial portrayal, the appearance of this character is contrived and jarring.  A note I think the story would have been better without.   

Despite its flaws, Voyager continues the thread of a passionate romance and fascinating premise.  The time travel fantasy is portrayed well--in particular the notion of what one would bring back to the 18th century if all you could carry was in your pockets.  Combining historical romance and fantasy was a genius stroke that makes this series of continuing interest.  Gabaldon's superior narrative, likeable characters and excellent research continue and keep her audience hooked.  In light of the inherent difficulty of maintaining reader interest in a character and premise over three books, this is a highly sucessful sequel. 
