
The new economy is a global economy favoring intangible things: ideas, information, and relationships and is intensely interlinked.   Today, the new information based sector occupies over 15% of the total US economy.  In the postindustrial society, communication has become the economy and the cultural, technological, and conceptual impacts reverberate at the roots of our lives.   The financial sector has reshaped the economy; the financial sector ownership involves only a small number of people;  the financial innovations include: mortgages, insurance, venture funding, stocks, checks, credit cards, and mutual funds; the financial sector has given rise to corporations, market capitalism, the industrial age, and has influenced how all business has been done.  Since communication is the economy, the net is the future.  The net has accelerated in usage due to the increase in silicon chips and fiber optic data transmission; the net is weaving lives, minds, and artifacts into a global scale network; the result is the swarm of information, reticulating the surface of the planet; the new economy will increasing obey the logic of the networks and understanding the network will be the key to understanding how the economy works.  In 1997, there were 6 billion non-computer chips and by 2005 the predicted usage was at 10 billion.

The network represents connectivity.  We are connection everything to everything.  The network values the dumb power of bits in the swarm; the connectivity and usage of the dumb bits or parts in the swarm yield smart results; and we don't need advanced Artificial Intelligence to make an intelligent system.   The network is a link of distributed, bottom up, data bits;   it lets things communicate among themselves and takes a decentralized approach for communication, for example, manufacturing robots scheduling their own work based on incoming requests, as they bid on work dependant on their capability.  The swarm aim is superior performance in a turbulent environment.  Consider the power of the "Wisdom of the crowds".  In one case sample, 5,000 attendees, at a computer graphics conference were give individual access to a simulator and the task on how too land a plane.  The attendee had novice knowledge about how to land the plane.   The jet responded to the average decisions of the swarm.  The group landed the jet with almost no direction.   In another case example, the group was given the task to navigate a submarine and go look for buried treasure.   The group could not initiate any movement until leadership from a loud speaker was given to "go right".  The leadership unlocked the paralysis of the swarm and the direction facilitated action.

Technology success is measured on how invisible it becomes to the end user and how effective it becomes to the long term strategy in developing products and services that can't be ignored.   The power of the network increases in value n power 2 where n is the number of members.  Therefore, networks need to increase their critical mass of members to become effective.   Innovation attracts members.  Innovation is more important than price; price is the derivative of innovation; monopolies push up price and decrease quality and create a dangerous singular source of innovation; and the network destroys monopolies through collective innovation, such as, open source.
