
The mysterious oriental mirror is ugly, and it has powers that wield themselves on the unexpected.  It wreaks havoc and sometimes kills, as is the case with several people in this book.  The rest are either thought mad or driven mad.  Question:  If you could, would you switch places with somebody else in a different time?  I think I might, but I would like to be given a choice.  Brandy McCabe and her granddaughter Shay Garrett aren't given that choice.  Both are 20 years old and about to marry men neither love when the mirror transports them into each other's bodies.

Marlys Millhiser has woven a complex and fascinating story of culture shock in which Brandy becomes her granddaughter and Shay becomes her grandmother.  Shay is thought crazy in the early 1900s because she can tell the future, and she keeps a diary to tell her grandmother how she has lived out her life should she return to her own body one day.  Her story and how she deals with a pre-citified Boulder, Colorado is the most interesting segment of the book, but I didn't feel sorry for Shay as much as I admired her strength of character.  She also had her mother's stories of her ancestors to go on, but this was not the case for poor Brandy.  The Garrett's and Shay's fiancee' don't know what to do with a pregnant Shay who is terrified and clueless about the year 1978, but they know after discovering the diary that she really is Brandy.  

The story is often heartbreaking, often times quite funny, and there are so many supporting and unforgettable characters--like the lovable Thora K., Brandy's first mother-in-law and the old man who takes care of Shay when she runs away from her family--that this book is not only compelling, but also makes you think about your own place in this world.  What Shay and Brandy do have in common is Rachel, Brandy's daughter and Shay's mother.  Now picture those two being in each other's place when you think of that!  

Somebody here called the book a literary classic; I wouldn't go that far, but it is excellent, regardless.  The Mirror is magical storytelling any way you look at it, so let it weave it's spell on you.        
