
  I was stunned to see so many critical reviews of this book here.  Even more stunned by the criticisms.  This is not a scientific treatise, and never pretends to be.  This is not an introduction into the more abstract and obscure aspects of Emergence, nor is it a dry and tedious mathematical paper.

  This is an interesting, graspable, exciting and intelligently written book about a phenomenon which is absolutely, positively crucial to understand.  To some people Emergence is a particular abstract in a particular field - those people were disappointed and found this "light reading" - which is really too bad, because they are the ones who NEED this book the most.  Alas, we can expect it to be a while before these "scientist" can look outside their own shallow mud-puddles of their over-specialties to see how applicable emergent theory is to the world we are immersed in, both natural and man-made.

   If you didn't find this book exciting, you didn't read it.  Sit down and read it without distraction and prejudice.  Let Johnson do what he does best; take you on a journey of ideas and concepts.  Sure, some of it is simplified for the lay-reader, but anybody who isn't a total couch-potato is going to find the content interesting enough to set-out and search for details on their own.  It isn't Johnson's goal to elaborate on some trivial and fragmentary specialty that only people with masters degrees and secured positions in academia could possibly enjoy or tolerate.  

  His goal is to show what emergence IS and why it is SO important, how vast the concepts are in their potential application in every imaginable field, and how elegant, simple, complex, chaotic, and BEAUTIFUL emergence IS !

   And he does exactly this quite well.  If you read this book and are not excited, you didn't get it.  Read it again.  And again.  Look up the examples of emergence, and try to actually find your own examples of emergence in YOUR world, in YOUR daily experience.  The enrichment you'll gain from it will be worth a lot more than any silly over-specialty in an obscure field of research that nobody has ever hear
