
As a one-time practicing physicist (now just an "arm-chair physicist") and lifetime music lover, I have found this beautifully-written little book irresistible over the 17 years it has been in my library. In 1983, when the original hardcover edition came out, this book was given to me as a gift by  someone knowing my musical tastes, figuring that it would be the perfect  gift. It turned out to be, but for reasons that are largely  non-musical.

As an arm-chair scientist, I've read and enjoyed more than a  few popularizations by well-known scientists over the years. These include  Richard Feynman with his wry humor in virtually everything he wrote (I  number myself among those physicists who "cut their eye teeth" on the  Feynman Lectures in Physics), Stephen Hawking, Brian Greene, Carl Sagan,  and even Brian Swimme. (The Swimme of "A Walk Through Time" goes down  easily, and covers much of the same ground that Thomas does, but in a quite  different way; the Swimme of "The Universe is a Green Dragon" is a much  harder sell for me due to its hard-pressed attempt to oversimplify.) But  for sheer elegance and poetry and breadth of scope, and for essays that  provoke thought on the part of the reader, none can hold a candle to  Thomas.

Everyone who reads this little masterpiece will have his or her  favorites. Here are a few of mine:

In "Things Unflattened by Science" (an  essay on unaddressed and/or incomplete challenges that future scientists  might well undertake), a paragraph on how biologists might endeavor to  better understand what music is, and how it affects the human condition,  starting with a rather small-scale assignment to explain the effect of  Bach's "The Art of Fugue" on the human mind.

In "Altruism" (an essay on  the symbiotic interrelationships among species), how it is that such a  condition actually exists, and a challenge to future scientists to better  understand how our own species might become more altruistic (and adult)  than it presently is.

In "The Attic of the Brain" (a cautionary essay on  the risks of psychiatry, most importantly psychoanalysis, in terms of  performing "total brain dumps"), the need for all of us to carry around a  little clutter in our lives, as insurance against the chance that we might  inadvertently lose our ability to retrieve something truly important.

In  the title (and final) essay, another cautionary tale, this time on  thermonuclear weaponry, the most lucid description I've ever read regarding  the true meaning of this music as envisioned by Gustav Mahler. In a few  brief but sublime paragraphs, Thomas has captured the essence of this  remarkable opus in a way that no musician (and that includes such  Mahlerites as Bernstein, Karajan, Klemperer, Rattle and Walter) ever had.  Until very recently, that is, with the release a few months back of a  staggering performance by Benjamin Zander, conductng the Philharmonia  Orchestra. But that is another topic, and another review.

In the  seventeen years since the initial publication of this book, quite a bit has  changed in our worldview, in some aspects of society and science. But not  enough! The observations and challenges that Thomas lays out will endure  for centuries, provided only that we endure as well.

Bob Zeidle
