
Simon Winchester is a popular historian, in the modern mold. This means that he's socially and politically a liberal, and that he's interested in *everything* connected with a specific event. He'll examine it from all angles, and attempt to see it from everyone's eyes, look over everything connected with it, and then draw some conclusions. Usually, those conclusions over-reach some (I'm being general about this type of writer, not of Winchester specifically) and the point of view is relentlessly modern.

Winchester has chosen as the topic of this book the explosion of the volcano Krakatoa in 1883. Interestingly, the author is trained as a geologist, though he has spent most of his life working as a journalist and writer. This means that he actually understands the terminology of geology and vulcanology enough that he can at least make an attempt to explain it to the rest of us in layman's terms, and the result is generally a happy one. Krakatoa was a complex event (the island had three summits, each a separate volcano: two disappeared in the explosion, but they erupted for a good while beforehand, and their effects lasted for years afterwards) and Winchester does a good job of relating what happened, the prelude to it, and the aftermath.

The one criticism that people have which I agree with is that he tends to wander a bit, at times. There are discussions here of everything from Dutch Colonial policy to the habits of spiders to rather technical (though carefully explained) geology. While it's all interesting, sometimes it does stray a bit far from the chosen topic. The author also occasionally over-reaches, a bit. For instance, his assertion that the explosion of the volcano indirectly led to Indonesia's independance is a bit much. My edition included a magazine article he'd written just after the Boxing Day tsunami, in which he attempts to connect the San Francisco earthquake with George W. Bush's election as U.S. President...that seems and even bigger stretch, to be honest.

When the author sticks to the story, however, what he writes is very interesting. I would recommend this book
