
Os Guinness has a knack for taking difficult and complex subjects and capturing and presenting information that allows small chunks of the philosophy to be grasped and pondered deeply.  This book is no exception.  The fact that it is also a study guide is even more effective in delivering the message while directing the reader to several key questions to consider in each section. 

One of the best aspects of the book are the hundreds of quotes and essays, all around the central theme of the importance of character.  While our culture often acts to create an "end justifies the means" behavioral set, never before has character been so important, or so difficult to really practice and live.

The book begins with some essays from famous leaders; from Plato to George Washington, Winston Churchill to Machiavelli, and compares and contrasts what each felt about the importance of character, and how it was to be demonstrated.  Much of the material is pretty well known, yet the ability to so easily read and discuss different styles and approaches is well worth the effort. 

My favorite sections were on the "Cultural Erosions of Character" in which the many examples of how society pushes and changes the definition and meaning in life impacts what we define as important at all.  From advertising, to media, the pressure to conform is greater than ever, but in some ways has always existed.  

One of the best essay's in my opinion is called the "Revenge of Failure" wherein Henry Fairlie rips the "legend of our times", as envy at its worst.  No longer content to envy what others have and we do not, we now attempt to destroy in others that which we cannot achieve ourselves.  This process degrades talent and is a poor attempt to "buy" our way into importance not through the achievement of something remarkable, but through the tearing down of the remarkable achievement into something attainable.  Thus character becomes something that is no longer "earned".

The sections on plastic surgery and other shifts into a looks based culture further erode the importance of character.  In this relentless and obsessed pursuit of the elusive perfection, the hunter becomes the hunted, and always loses in the battle to fight against aging and the myth of happiness in ones physical appearance.   Powerful depictions of how this societal pressure has claimed far too many who sacrifice character for fleeting and shallow appearance, are depicted with a convicting clarity.

Overall, this is a very well done and thought provoking book.  As a study guide it would be ideal for small groups, or even personal reflections.  The book is so full of quotes and essays that it can be read at once, or in dozens of small bites with equal effectiveness.  Highly recommended.

