
For most of us, the area of thanatology is something quite new, despite the fact that death is such an intimate "companion" that can come at any moment of our lives, whether by degrees or instantaneously, irrelevant of our ethnic, social and economic backgrounds. It is a plain truth that can not be avoided, and no technological advancements can make it go away. I would personally like to consider death as the ultimate best friend who would never desert you, despite what your feelings may be. And as a child has the innocent ablity to humanize a doll or a toy soldier, the adult must equally do so with death, not shy away from it and be totally uncommunicative to what it means: the total cessation of physical life, for if one denys its existence and its inevitability, the person could not only suffer from added unnecessary physical heartache, but he or she could also augment the physical stress with mental, spiritual and religious grief as well. Submission to and acceptance of the truth, no matter how difficult it would be to hear, could be the highest catharsis that medicine could not come close to healing. In Elizabeth Kubler-Ross's classic study of the dying process, she interviews patients of various age brackets who teach the living what dying means to them. But even though the experience is individualistic to that specific person, the process of dying has a universality to it which connects us all. Hence, how do you take the sting from the wound? In On Death and Dying, you remove the sting by communication and by simply being there to let the patient say what he or she has to say, to let them vent, and at their own pace, go through the classic defined stages of the dying process: denial and isolation, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. The patients become our teachers. We learn of their fears, their possible financial burdens, in one woman's case, the fear of the worms, et cetera. But we also learn about what the families go through, their own anger and disbelief and guilt. It is about pacing and the opening up of repressed fear for all the people involved. Sometimes there is cohesion in the shock and anger, other times not. The United States is one of the most death-denying countries out there, a fact most evident with plastic surgery on the rise and chiseled bodies to reverse the aging process, for going foward means only one thing: death. Ross's overall message is that death does not have to be and is not the horror that we all think it is, the grim reaper with the skeletal hand and the sharpened scythe. Death has issues for everybody, doctors, faith-filled people, even Ross heself. It is a step that we are all going to take sooner or later. But it is comforting to know that we are all in it together.   


