
With the hype over the Da Vinci Code and its related popularity, you can sometimes get the feeling that some people probably think the grand conspiracy novel started with Dan Brown.  Of course, this is not the case, as Brown is merely one in a long line of such thriller writers.  Probably the biggest in the bunch was Robert Ludlum, but not to be forgotten is Jon Land.  Not quite the big name that Ludlum or Brown, Land is nonetheless the most pure fun, with outlandish plots and tons of action.

The Last Prophecy brings back Danielle Barnea, an ex-Israeli cop and Ben Kamal, a former Palestinian detective.  Despite the obvious conflicts caused by their different backgrounds, the two are faithful lovers and, as the novel begins, both working as investigators for the U.N.  In this case, the two are called to look into a mass murder in a Palestinian village.  At first, it appears to be a massacre by Israeli troops, but it soon enough appears to be something far more sinister, a conspiracy tied to events uncovered at the World War II and some lost prophecies of Nostradamus.  The last of these prophecies provides the key to the conspiracy.

Land uses his standard formula for his Barnea/Kamal novels:  the two split up for the majority of the book to separately unearth parts of the plot only to converge at the end to stop the bad guys.  Typically, the people who provide the information are assassinated by the villains before they can reveal all.  This formula works well enough since Land executes it well (and really, Brown and Ludlum use a similar formula themselves).

I won't say this is perfect writing, but it's plenty good enough to merit a strong four stars.  My biggest "problem" with Land is that he is only writing books featuring Barnea and Kamal; I miss his older novels with Blaine McCracken, which were even more delightfully outlandish with their James Bond-like world conquest plots.  But in the absence of McCracken, this series still fits the bill for what Land does best: entertain from beginning to end.
