

Rabbi Harold S. Kushner is one of the best known authors of our time, having written the classic book, When Bad Things Happen to Good People.  This, his ninth book, was one of the top ten best selling religious books of the past year.  As the title indicates, it is a study of Psalm 23, certainly the most beloved of all of the Psalms.  Dr. Kushner writes with a pastor's heart and a special eye toward the healing wisdom to be found in that portion of God's Word.

If you are looking for a book about putting your spiritual life into meaningful practice, you might wish to read this book.  It is filled with inspiration and encouragement for an ongoing trusting relationship with God.  Kushner takes each phrase of the Psalm as his chapter headings, and verse by verse, provides insight and practical suggestions for how to make these truths come alive each day.

Throughout the book, Kushner utilizes his vast knowledge of the original Hebrew text to help the reader understand the nuances of the words such as "soul" and "cup".  He explains the nuances of what the soul is and why the soul needs nourishing.  He states, "The world asks so much of us.  We give ourselves so totally to our work, to the task of raising our family and running a home that we often forget to take time to nourish our souls..." (page 61).

The fact that God helps us "feel safe in an unsafe world" (page 50) is the Psalmist's theme, repeated and emphasized in every line.  Drawing from the world of science and literature, art and great works of theology, this deceptively small book is filled with encouragement and blessing.

Occasionally, Christians forgo reading Jewish authors, forgetting that Judaism is the forerunner of our own faith in Jesus Christ.  That would be a mistake.  For, here, we have a work that is sacred to both of our traditions, presented by an acclaimed author, dedicated scholar and proven congregational leader.  Dr. Kushner is Rabbi Laureate of Temple Israel in Natick, Massachusetts.  He has been honored by the Christophers as one of fifty people who have made the world a better place and by Religion in American Life as their Clergyman of the Year in 1999.  This is a book to read, give and savor over time.

If you find this review helpful you might want to read some of my other reviews, including those on subjects ranging from biography to architecture, as well as religion and fiction.
