
Hugh Hewitt is right on target encouraging Republicans to remain loyal to President George W. Bush.  We are confronted with a long term fight against Islamic nihilists.  The Democrats who dominate that party nationally are essentially pacifists trapped in the mindset of the countercultural excesses of the 1960s.  Indeed, if the Democratic Party returns to power, the war on terror will be severely compromised---if not lost.  Even theological modernists like myself recognize that the Republican Party also best represents the values required to underpin a viable social order.  And yes, we need to purify our ranks and rid ourselves of back stabbers like Senator Lincoln Chafee.  But what about the Republican crybabies who threaten to severely damage the party if it fails to cater to their excessive demands?  These folks may be our greatest threat in the elections of 2006.  Many of them possess a suicidal Nietzschean streak.  In their heart of hearts, they idiotically believe we should let the Democrats win so that the Republican Party can be "purified."  The author has yet to sufficiently deal with this crisis.  Hopefully, he starts to do so real soon before it's too late.

The crybaby Republicans are particularly dangerous concerning the explosive illegal immigration issue.  A number of them come across as nativists who despise Hispanics.  We cannot, however, forget that the children of numerous illegal aliens are often American Citizens.  They get to vote at the age of 18---and will most certainly seek revenge on the GOP for harassing their parents.  Let's get something straight: we are also not going to send an estimated 10-12 million people back to their original homeland.  But aren't these individuals breaking the law?  Human law is not about the striving for utopian perfection.  Yucky sausage making compromises are occasionally required.  I may have a few complaints about Hugh Hewitt's newest book.  Still, you need to purchase a copy.  His overall advice is indispensable if you truly love your family and wish to protect the United States from ruin. 

David Thomson
Flares into Darkness
