
     I stumbled upon Matthew Reilly's novel in the new release section of my public library. I had never heard of him before, this being his first release in the United States, but the synopsis on the inside of the dust jacket caught my attention so I decided to give the book a try.  
     Most books coming out now have author blurbs of recommendation I take with a grain of salt. Most of these authors are paid for their reviews or they are personnal friends, making it difficult to determine the sincerity of the review.  Everything is promised to be a "white, knuckle thriller" or my personal favorite "a rollercoaster ride of excitement" but the majority of the time the book does not live up to the hype. This is definately not the case with "Ice Station". This book is Action with a capital A! How this book has not been optioned for film bewilders me because if it is done right it would be one of the best action films of the past twenty years. The book alone left me exhausted.
     For a quick intro without giving anything away (because I hate spoilers) a crisis emerges at an isolated Antarctic research station.  A marine recon team is sent to investigate and all hell breaks loose.  This is not an exaggeration.  When the action begins in this book it does not let up. Every time I thought the book was going to have a down moment to give me the opportunity to eat or get some sleep, I got cold cocked by a left hook.  The characters only pause in the book to reload.
     Now there will be nay sayers out there who will criticize that the book lacks any real substance.  Maybe there could have been more characterization, perhaps there is a fact or two off when utilizing military jargon or technology, or maybe an event bends the laws of probability but all I can say is I don't care. I had fun with this book. For the two days I read the book I had a blast. This is not a contender for the pulitzer prize. It is not going to pop up on Oprah's book club. This is a summer action movie put to words and I dare you not to have fun. 
     I may have discovered Matthew Reilly in the library but now I purchase his books as soon as they are released in hardcover. I know what to expect and he never disappoints.
