
Of all the articles and books of Chomsky that I have read, Necessary Illusions: Thought Control in Democratic Societies is without doubt the most exhaustively researched (and footnoted), the most logically  structured, and the most convincing. Chomsky reminds us that the majority  of the populace rely on the various media institutions for their  information about political affairs; both domestic and foreign. One can  only hold an opinion on a topic if one knows about the topic. So take, for  example, the popular myth of the 'persistent Soviet vetoe' at the UN during  the cold war. Why do people believe the USSR was constantly vetoeing any  and every Security Council Resolution? Simple! When they did, it generated  front page condemnation. When the US or the UK exercised their right of  veteo: silence. As Chomsky notes, during the years of 1970 and 1989 the  former Soviet Union veteod 8 resolutions. The US veteod some 56. This is  what Chomsky refers to as Thought Control. Unless the public examine the  factual record of the UN themselves, they will never come by this  information, (at least not in the mainstream press). So although Chomsky's  title may appear somewhat paradoxical, or oxymoronic, a moments reflection  on such facts shows it to be, in fact, extremenly pragmatic and truthful.  The question is, have you the honesty and sheer guts to question yourself  and challenge the information which has contributed to your beliefs?  The  crux of Chomsky's argument is that propaganda is to a democracy what  violence is to a dictatorship. Chomsky points out that, in fact, propaganda  is, contrary to popular postulations, more important and vital to a  democratic society because people still have some rights. That is, since  people can talk, the powers that be must ensure that only the correct words  come out of the peoples' mouths. In a dictatorship it does not really  matter too much what people think; for whatever they may think, they have  to do what they are told, by pain of death. In countries such as the US  (and the UK) other, more subtle, methods are required.  People often  critisise Chomsky for the sources of his information (the copious  footnotes). No such critique can be levelled at this work. Chomsky's  sources are declassified internal planning documents, naval proceedings  documents, and the very institutions he examines, New York Times,  Washington Post etc. If there was one Chomsky book I would suggest you to  read, this would be it
