
"East of Eden" is a beautifully written, sprawling, three generation saga of the men and women who settled the Salinas Valley in California. The story begins far away in the East, on the farm of the unscrupulous Cyrus Trask and his two sons, Adam and Charles. Adam is an upright, honest young man who naturally draws people to him, while Charles has an angry, violent spirit.
Charles tries in vain to earn the love of his father, and takes his anger at his failure out on Adam. Adam is sent by his father into the army as a sign of his love, but Cyrus keeps Charles close to home, knowing that war would release something dangerous and violent in his other son. 

Adam wanders for many years across the country after his service, and some of the most lyrical passages in the book describe his life as a tramp, closely mirroring Steinbeck's own experiences during the Depression. Finally he returns to the farm and exists in uneasy partnership with Charles until the mysterious Cathy arrives. The more astute Charles quickly realizes her true nature, but innocent Adam marries her and they move to California. 

Adam expects Cathy to pursue his dream of life on a ranch, but Cathy is a vicious, evil character with no redeeming qualities, and after the birth of twin sons she escapes only to re-emerge much later when her sons are grown. Adam hibernates for many years on the ranch, broken-hearted over Cathy's desertion, and convinced he must hide the secret from his sons forever, which become an impossible task. Repeating the pattern of their father's life, the twins Aron and Caleb vie for their father's love, with Aron effortlessly winning it while Caleb comes to believe there is something evil lurking in his spirit. But this time around, Caleb is redeemed in a way Charles never was.

Steinbeck's prose is masterful, and his descriptions of the Salinas Valley, lush with the rains, brutal with the drought, capture exactly why men were drawn to the west. His portrayals of character and motives--sadly lacking in the movie--are totally convincing, and his Adam is a flawed but admirable character. 

Steinbeck has been a bit out of favor--at least until this was chosen as an Oprah book. As an English-as-a-second-language teacher I recently taught "The Pearl," and that book too surprised me with its gorgeous writing and subtle imagery. (We all read it in high school but I now realize it went right over my head.) Try Steinbeck again--you won't be disappointed--my book club wasn't!
