
  Horowitz with the help of researchers provides glimpses of the "101 most dangerous academics in America." Your own political outlook will determine whether you think Horowitz is an American hero or a buffoon.

  I'll vote for American hero as Horowitz provides details on professors whose very existence on a campus should motivate people concerned for their children and the destiny of the United States to march on the legislatures that use taxpayer funds to pay most of these "academics" demanding their immediate termination.

  College has changed. Where the goal was once to teach young minds to think independently, it is now a place for intdoctrination, with punishment meted out for non-conformance to the various left-wing doctrines being rammed down the throats of young adults.

  The book is so densely packed that choosing representative excerpts could easily create a shorter bookof its own. For example, Professor Jose Angel Gutierrez opines "[w]e have got to eliminate the gringo, and what I mean by that is if the worst comes to the worst, we have got to kill him." This from a licensed attorney, now a professor paid from the public purse - taxpayer dollars. Prof. Alison Jaggar, another beneficiary of taxpayer money, seeks to combat the "male-dominant structure of everyday life." She seeks, essentially, a world without men. Not exactly an inclusive outlook.

  The examples cited above are mild. Most are far worse - and these are the people, often supported by taxpayers in public colleges, who are forcing their views into the minds of young people. With tenure and increasing control of the hiring process, other views are shut out of the academy. The academy itself is being converted into a political training ground. Many of these left-wing radicals are tenured and can not be fired, not even the likes of Prof. Haunani-Kay Trask who says "[t]he enemy is the United States of America and everyone who supports it." She also advocates the deportation of all non-ethnic Hawaiians from the islands. And the taxpayers foot the bill for her to "teach".

  Some of the names are familiar to many as talking heads, such as Prof. Joseph Massad who demands the destruction of Israel and denies that the Jews are a nation. Imagine what happens to a student, a Jewish student in particular, who disputes Massad's views. This happened and Massad screamed at the students. When the matter was investigated - a rarity - Massad conveniently couldn't remember the incidents.

  Other of these professors make equally outlandish claims, many of them based on race, gender or sexual preference.

  Reading this book is a sure invitation to outrage - and then depression as you realize that there is little the average citizen can do to stop what is happening, unless citizens band together to create enough of an uproar as does happen on all too rare occasion.

  A must-read for anyone concerned with the fate of America's young minds and the nation itself.

Jerr
