
You, the reader, are the subject and the hero of Calvino's novel, an exercise in reader-response theory gone mad. Calvino's lively experiment begins by describing a reader (that is, "you") reading Calvino's novel and, after this opening, "you" settle in to read the novel that you were "meant" to be reading--a noir mystery with a cliffhanger at the end of the first chapter. 

But all is not fair in the Land of Fiction; the copy of the book has been misbound by the printer, so you have to rush to the store to get a properly printed book--only to find that the replacement is a different book entirely. After several tricks and machinations, you end up reading the beginnings of ten different books, written in ten different styles, yet all sharing place and character names and even themes. (Part of the fun is identifying the author being imitated: the most obvious segments mock Borges, Dostoevsky, and Chekhov.)  While initially it seems that Calvino assumes you are male, soon you are introduced to the Other Reader and "you" see the story through her eyes. Both of you work to solve the mystery of the erratic book passages, and the pleasure of reading is heightened by romantic tensions between the two of you.
	
The book alternates between the story fragments and the story of "you." The repeated changes and interruptions in style and story can be baffling: "You can't get your bearings: the characters have changed, the settings, you don't understand what it's about, you find names of people and don't know who they are." It's a bit like "Groundhog Day," except that instead of being stuck inside the same day, you're doomed to repeat ten different but terrifyingly similar acts of literature interruptus. 

Well before the end of the novel, you realize that the real story is not to be found in any of the parodies (mysteries, fantasies, and romances) that you desperately try (and fail) to finish, but in the story of your reading experience itself--an experience made all the more complicated by the web of conspiracies engendered by the Other Reader, a reclusive popular writer, a charlatan churning out counterfeit books under the writer's name, a sloppy and conniving translator, and various officials of repressive dictatorships.

For the reader who doesn't mind when an author attempts to describe your state of mind, Calvino's novel can be pure fun. The success of Calvino's task depends in no small part on whether the reading experience he describes recalls how you read a book; I know that some readers find some of these passages alien ("That's not how I read books"), but for me the various descriptions of the reading experience were both perceptive and eerily familiar. This reader, too, found the first half of the book far more engaging than the second half; later in the book, the gimmick inevitably wears a little thin and the detours that spoof publishing conglomerates, repressive governments, and state censorship were a bit more than this short novel could handle. And the "solution" to the puzzle, although fitting, has the oomph of the finale to a shaggy-dog story. No matter--if you enjoy metafiction, you might just recognize yourself in this clever book
