
I think one of my major problems was the level of opinion being shot
at the reader in the book. But then at times that made the book more
entertaining - its acerbic opinion of the right, how Reagan getting
elected made her feel stupid about being American, a funny British couple. The description of small details from each of the characters' childhood was something I
could relate to because i think of that myself. There were clever
tidbits from anthropology, and economics, and generally all fields of
intellectual inquiry, all somehow connected with the patchwork of love
and relationships, and thus brain meets heart and you end up with
something almost like the Bible for our times. The focus on the main
character made it so that every detail about him was described.
Anyway, I am rambling, so, a note about the ending:
I did find myself thinking this is getting very strange as the book
got towards the ending. It might have made more sense if Nelson
actually was interested in the new girl the narrator finds for him,
and the story then comes full circle. It would end in a nice ironic
sort of way. However, his rejecting her makes in my mind for what
would be a bad traditional ending. I don't mind this, since the one
time I wrote a story for a creative writing course I ended up with a
terrible traditional ending. Now, could he have been anything other
than a mystic? I felt that there was some hint towards Hinduism and
spirituality building up towards the end. He mentioned India and
Hinduism unexpectedly and repeatedly at one point in the book. So his
becoming a mystic was alluding perhaps to the ashramas - and his
transition from intellectual worker to a mystical worker to eventually
a sage, as he attains Nirvana and becomes the Buddha of our times. So
in this way an ending emphasizing the spiritual, is perhaps the best.
In line with the book, the spiritual is the eternal, and only
accessible through life-changing (near-death) experience. What you do
from 25-50 (making a model village in rural Africa) is transient (can
never be perfect; infighting; hunting; guns; the "dark-side" of human
nature will come back even in Utopia; i like the flexible hours; work
when you want; accumulate credits; do manual labor once in a while;
start the day with reading , not the end when you are tired; siesta,
fiesta etc.) no matter how good you are. The girl herself is secondary
to the book - ironic since the book promotes feminism, is written by a
guy with a female narrator but a male protagonist, who she is fixated
on and has doubts about. But in the end the Jesus character is still
male. While the female goes back to Palo Alto and takes an average job
in service of the savior. The Man has the final laugh.
Do you favor a better ending
