
The Waste Lands, the third novel in Stephen King's The Dark Tower series is by far the best volume yet.  This volume picks up a short time after the end of Drawing of the Three, and we see Roland training Eddie and Susannah to become true gunslingers in Roland's world.  Soon into the novel, the three gunslingers encounter one the Guardians of Mid-World, a huge cyborg bear, who is guarding a portal that goes between the different worlds.  Roland explains that each of these portals is connected to the Dark Tower by a beam, and if they follow the beam, it will lead them directly to the Dark Tower, they just don't know how far away it is.

As the three gunslingers start to follow the beam, we, the readers, are taken to our own world and reintroduced to Jake, the ill-fated child from The Gunslinger.  Jake is currently having a mental breakdown (as is Roland) due to the fact that Roland saved him from dying his destined death at the hands of a Cadillac in The Drawing of the Three.  One part of Jake tells him he should be dead, the other says he should be alive.  Jake's mental breakdown leads him on a journey across New York to a haunted house that has many connections with other characters in the book, and in this house, Jake believes he can get back to Mid-World and be reunited with Roland.

The final part of the journey in The Waste Lands, takes our group to a city called Lud, on the outskirts of the waste lands.  The group believes they need to find a monorail named Blaine in the city, and he will help them on their journey to the Dark Tower.  Once they enter the city, much goes wrong and we are introduced to a really cool, but really evil character called the Tick-Tock Man, who runs Lud.  All of this leads up to a ridiculously exciting conclusion and a killer cliffhanger that makes me really glad I waited to read these until they were all published.

As far as action and suspense goes, The Waste Lands takes the cake easily from the previous two books.  Most of all, this book makes us appreciate the character development from the previous books.  We care so much about these characters, and would be devastated if anything were to happen to them.  This book also goes a long way in providing some much needed answers about the Dark Tower in general and Mid-World.  These answers are both satisfying and frustrating.  They are satisfying that you aren't completely clueless as to what is going on, but there are deeper answers to everything that we are given in this novel, so it just makes you want to read on more.

The series just keeps getting better as it goes along
