
First off, I have to admit: I am 22 years old and read the entirety of this book in one 7 hour sitting on my way to Paris.

I picked up the novel out of sheer curiosity and personal research for my job. I work at Barnes A Noble and am in charge of both the Teen and Children's sections. When our store sold out of New Moon within a week of initially getting the book, my curiosity was piqued -- I felt I had to give its predecessor a try so I knew what the hype was about and could give an honest opinion about the book.

Now here I sit and I have finished both Twilight and New Moon. I have to admit -- Meyer has a talent. Both books I read at breakneck speed, barely stopping to eat or sleep. Her prose is smooth and easy, accompanied by a plot that I found engrossing. I went back after reading Twilight and re-read my favorite sections more than once. The love story was hypnotizing and surprisingly seductive. I definitely plan on recommend this book, mainly to teenage girls who will swoon over Edward.

However, I only gave the book four stars. While I enjoyed it immensley as I read the novel, a few things bothered me upon looking back: 

1) While Meyer deinitely has a talent for writing an engaging novel full of beautiful descriptions, the character descriptions at times felt extremely lazy. If I had to read one more time about Edward's marble, angelic face (what, exactly, does that mean??), his liquid topaz eyes, or how Bella glared at Edward, I thought I was going to pitch the book down the aisle of the plane.

2) I'm not sure I buy their romance. It was heartstopping and climactic during the read, but honestly, what DOES he see in her? If Bella keeps asking that question to herself, maybe her audience shoud seriously consider it. 

3)Bella herself bothered me. I found Bella to be horribly dependent on Edward to the point that I got irritated with her. And her constantly having to catch her breath around Edward -- Puh-leeze. Be a woman! Stand on your own feet! She never fully developed into a character for me since she revolved solely around Edward, something that I, as a self-sustained woman, cannot connect with.

And lastly, 4)Bella wants so desperately to become a vampire, but that seems like it could pose a problem between herself and Edward. Since I haven't seen any evidence that Edward likes Bella for any other reason than that she smells wonderful (a scent that she has because she is human and has blood coursing through her veins, mind you), what happens when she no longer smells good? Meyer is really going to have to prove to me that Edward actually loves Bella for other reasons than her smell, otherwise it will be completely unbelievable if Bella turns into a vampire and Edward is still attracted to this ordinary girl...

Although the plot has its shortcomings, I still thoroughly enjoyed it and that is why I give it four stars. I will read the next one when it comes out, and any other subsequent after that, for the simple reason that the books are entertaining and Edward is so dang alluring
