
         Diane Ravitch discusses the development of censorship in textbooks and on tests that has been slowly integrated into the educational system.  She speaks about the rights of the First Amendment pertaining to free speech, and provides a detailed history of how censorship has become a part of the textbooks and tests that have been developed.  The book is informative and thought- provoking.
	Ravitch starts by discussing the creation of bias and sensitivity boards and how they have come to dominate what can and cannot be said in certain literature for education.  She goes on to talk about certain topics and words that must not be used.  This list is ridiculous and completely irrational.  Due to left and right wing intervention, almost everything of interest has been stripped from the educational requirements.  Ravitch discusses in great detail the effort of both sides and what their motives were in demanding that certain changes be made in textbooks and tests.  She goes further to detail the goals of each side and how they were met.  She argues that such censorship keeps children from learning historically accurate facts because adults would rather paint a picture of Utopia and keep children from feeling any emotions.  
	Ravitch presents a good, convincing argument with concrete reasoning to support her views.  To the best of my knowledge and research, she has done a great job at gathering accurate information about what has been going on in publishing companies and the struggles they have faced from bias and sensitivity reviews, feminists, minorities, and other groups.  Her reasoning is inductively strong with few logical fallacies.  Occasionally, Ravitch begs the question through circular reasoning and attacks the motives of some publishing companies.  Although she has clear concise points, Ravitch intermittently distorts the timeline within chapters, which is slightly confusing.  Her claims are logically consistent and her argument seems complete with all the relevant evidence presented.  Throughout research, Ravitch manages to also find publishing companies who have tried to change standards and incorporate more accurate facts in textbooks and what happens to these companies when they go against the bias and sensitivity rules.  The argument Ravitch presents is a historically accurate account of censorship in textbooks, fairly and effectively arguing her point.  
	Today, more and more people are beginning to notice what is going on with censorship in textbooks and are speaking up and taking steps toward removing these censors.  Textbooks are becoming more accurate, and classic literature reintroduced to the classroom.  Ravitch calls for the dispersion of the "language police" and a return to the "freedom of speech" that everyone has the right to exercise.  
