
I came into this book expecting one thing. After the first part, Perhaps an Accident, my expectations had completely altered. As I read through the second part, Marquesa de Montemeyor, my expectations were slowly changing even more. By the beginning of the third part, Esteban, my expectations had transformed so much they were hardly recognizable. 

I came into it expecting a novel about a man of religion's struggle with faith. By the first few pages I came to realize it had much more of a non-fiction lean, at this point I was scared of being bored. As I started to read part two I began to realize it wasn't about this Brother Juniper at all but the people in the accident. Throughout parts of the first chapter I have to admit I did feel bored, but near the end it caught fire and I was wowed by the first part's finish. This reinvested my firm belief that the ending of a short story will completely redeem it, for that's what each part was: a short story telling the complete life of one of the victims in the accident of the bridge.

The story of Thornton Wilder's Pulitzer Prize winner is that a bridge (the finest bridge in all of Peru) snapped and five travelers fell to their death. Brother Jupiter decided to use this accident to prove that it was God's will. This man found it more difficult than he expected discovering an ambiguity in life that he had not seen. Basically the novel to me is detailing the complexity and mystery of life.

I would say the way The Bridge of San Luis Rey was written was, generally, not exceptionally appealing to me. It was told almost exactly like a textbook account of the events. Using this method though, there were dazzling moments when the book flowed like poetry. 

The book also seemed slightly tedious at times. Certain sections were difficult to get through but as I pressed on I felt a certain gratification, in knowing that I was being shown snapshots of life that were almost as real as they get. 

Despite these downfalls (which had their upshots as well), the meaning of the book made it for me. The characters were all taken on spiritual journeys and though each story ended in death, which was a death too early for all of them, there was a certain bittersweet happiness in their soulful accomplishments. 

In total I would suggest the Bridge of San Luis Rey but only if you're willing to fully concentrate whenever you pick this book up. It can be a beautiful book but only if first acknowledged as a tough book
