
You probably know Joel Siegel from his enthusiastic movie reviews on Good Morning America.  But do you know the rest of the story?  Here's a chance to find out.

Mr. Siegel became a father for the first time at age 54, and his son, Dylan, was born on the day Mr. Siegel finished chemotherapy for colorectal cancer.  That cancer later spread to his lungs, and two more cancer surgeries and treatments followed.  Mr. Siegel's marriage did not last, but his love for Dylan did.  Realizing that his chances of living to see Dylan grow up are limited, Mr. Siegel decided to write down all of the wonderful things he wanted to share with Dylan over the next few decades . . . but might not be able to.  The result is a touching memoir with a heart that will cause you to shed more than an occasional tear while appreciating Mr. Siegel's love for his son.

Mr. Siegel writes well, has had many interesting experiences, and retains his sense of wonder.  He is open about many of his faults (which have led to failed marriages), but remains cautiously optimistic . . . and careful.

Dedicating the material to his son makes the memoir more personal and meaningful than almost any other memoir that I have read.  Anyone with an open heart would enjoy and benefit from this book.

If you are like me, you expected to mainly hear about the movies . . . and you will.  But there's much more in the book about Mr. Siegel's family, Jewish heritage (there's even a Yiddish dictionary with hilarious definitions), illnesses, past marriages, and advice for Dylan.  The show business stories are almost all ones that I had not heard before, and will reward those who are primarily looking for this feature.  Although you might think these are only about the movies, he also was a music critic and got to know the Beatles in the early days.

I was particularly interested by Mr. Siegel's first-hand accounts of working for civil rights in the South, helping with Bobbie Kennedy's campaign, and how he helped his wife, Jane, with her fatal illness.  

One of the thoughts you will have as you read this book is how you would write a parallel one for either your children or your grandchildren to play the same role in sharing knowledge and love across the generations.  I hope you will read this book and feel inspired to either transmit your own lessons in your own way . . . or to create the book you want to share with your descendants.  

In any case, keep a hanky handy!
