
In 2003 I suffered my worst major depression ever. It lasted for over a year, and in the worst moments -which lasted months- my anguish was so intense that I wished I were dead. Again, the worst part was when I couldn't even get a full night's rest, and after just two or three hours of sleep would wake up at 2 or 3 a.m. full of despair, unable to even pray or meditate or get any kind of relief, and anguished at the prospect of the new day approaching... Having to get up in the morning was hell. Needless to say I couldn't work, and that increased my ill-feelings and my guilt at seeing how my wife had to shoulder the full responsibility in our family of four (we have two adolescent kids). 
Reading Andrew Solomon's book, which I found recommended at depression-blog at blogspot dot com was an extraordinary experience, because for the first time ever I found my own reflected on the written page by a gifted writer who has also suffered the extreme anguish and pain of major depression.
In my illness, I found that psychiatrists, doctors and other therapists who haven't themselves gone through the hellish nightmare of a major depression simply cannot understand what it is like. It's just like what happens with someone who has never eaten an orange: no matter how much you you try to explain how it tastes, the other person will have no real understanding unless he/she eats one him/herself. Same with friends and well-wishers of many sorts, who will tell you things like "Cheer up!" or "Make an effort!" without realizing that that's precisely what you would most want to do -but can't. 
Solomon's book and the advise of Mike S. -now a friend, and the guy who created the depression-blog at blogspot dot com- have been of great value to me. And of course the courage and love of my wife, who never -even in the worst moments, when we both thought I might die at any moment- abandoned hope, sustaining me, putting up with a lot, holding me when I cried in utmost despair and wished I were dead as the only relief in the midst of what now I recall as the worst kind of torture a human being can be subjected to...
And my kids, too, who at times even made me laugh with a joke or helped me get some sleep with a massage. And God, who in the midst of utter darkness and despair, was there too, and saw me through
