
As a "follower of Christ" (Christian) who considers himself an Evangelical Protestant, this little devotional book will hold a special place in my library and my heart.  For all Christian believers, the richness and power of Brother Lawrence's life's witness and words are a fountain of Truth, a treasure that is as elegant (spiritually) as it is simple.  For the non-believers, I am afraid that reading this booklet (a spiritual treasure in disguise) will just confirm St. Paul the Apostles's words that "the message of the cross is ... foolishness to the Gentiles" (1 Corinthians. 1:18, 23 and 2:14).

The only way to do justice to this booklet is to quote from it and let you get a taste of it ...

This is a unique biography because it is not compiled by the Brother Lawrence of the Resurrection (birth name Nicholas Herman but known by his monastic name) but by the ones around his life in 17th century France.  Thus one learns very little about the beginnings of his life but very much about his godly lifestyle in the last 30 years of life of bliss (presence of God in his heart) and suffering (3 physical and debilitating ailments). 

We learn about this Spirit-filled vessel in God's vineyard - Brother Lawrence, by reading the Eulogy of the abbot of Lawrence's Christian community, 4 short notes of his conversations with his spiritual father - Abb? de Beaufort, 16 very short letters of spiritual advice and encouragement Brother Lawrence wrote to friends and seekers, a manuscript found at his death called "Spiritual Maxims" and a memoir of a leader in the church in France.

The followings are a selection of the many highlights and underlined phrases and sentences from this book:

"Busy yourself with keeping your mind in the presence of the Lord."

"My most normal habit is to simply keep my attention on God, and to be generally and lovingly aware of Him."

"I occupy myself solely with keeping my attention on God and by being generally and lovingly aware of Him."

"We have an infinitely good God who knows what we need."

"Console yourself with the One who keeps you fastened to the cross."

"We should love our friends, but without prejudicing the love of God which must be first."

"Think often about Him; worship Him without ceasing.  Life and die with Him.  This is the beautiful call in the life of a Christian."

"...we should love one another through our words of counsel and even more through our good examples."

"...our only business in this life is to please God. ... my little progress in the path of perfection."

"I applied myself to practicing the presence of God ... Doing this gave me such a high esteem for God that faith alone was capable of satisfying me."

"A devout woman told me that the spiritual life is a life of grace that begins with service fear, increases through the hope of eternal life, and is consumated by pure love."

MY PRAYER: May we all experience God's love, which truly can consume all other passions, and be filled with His grace which will empower us to truly love our neighbors (Christian and non-Christian) as ourselves.  This is my life goal 
