
This item is a must-have for anyone who is serious about understanding the origins of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (LDS or Mormons for short).  While not an authentic artifact, it is an excellent reproduction of the original book that started one of America's most successful and controversial social-religious movements of the 19th and 20th centuries.  

This reproduction allows the reader to read the original 19th century language style of structure and grammar as it fell from the lips of Joseph Smith (Author and Proprietor) to the pen(s) of his various scribes.  

When the book is placed in it's historical context, the reader can see the doctrinal development of many of the key points of theology that are the underpinning of the current LDS Church as well as Smith's answers for many of the religious concerns of his day.  

Also, interestingly, when compared to the current version of the book and the LDS Church today, the reader can see the evolution of church doctrine over time.  

For Example:  

The development from a monotheistic doctrine of deity (see book of 1 Nephi and Mosiah - also see Lectures on Faith, also by Smith), to the current polytheistic doctrine that the church espouses (see current version of the Book of Mormon - changing of the text in 1 Nephi to correspond with current church doctrine).  

The original condemnation of polygamy (marriage to more than one wife at a time) with the exception of raising up a righteous posterity (see book of Jacob), to the open endorsement and practice of the same from the mid to late 19th century for no reason other than Smith saying that God commanded the practice, then to the abandonment of the practice in order to prevent Church property from being confiscated and to allow Utah statehood in the union.  

The condemnation of secret, oath-bound clandestine societies (see book of Helaman, 3 Nephi, Ether) to the practice of blood oaths of secrecy, loyalty and revenge (for the murder of Smith) in the Masonic-derived Nauvoo temple endowment.  

The original condemnation and futility of Baptism for children and those that die without the law (see book of Mormon - name of a section within the book), to the practice of performing all church ordinances (including baptism) vicariously for the dead (those that died without the law).  

Like all religious/social/mass movements, the LDS Church will evolve and change to meet the needs of its members.  The importance of this book for any follower of the religion (or student of sociology, history, etc.) is to chart the origins of the institution and then follow it's metamorphosis over time as the institution attempts to adapt to a constantly changing and growing market.  For that reason alone the book receives 5 stars.
