
This is one of my favorite books of all time, and during my 40 years of life I've read a lot of them.  

First off: the style is simple and direct - no big words and no long sentences. But this is by no means to imply that it is unsophisticated. As the product of a 19-20 year old mind, it impresses. It reads very much like a modern novel. This is the kind of novel you wish you could have written yourself - at any age, let alone 19 or 20. As such, it is remarkable.

Secondly: the subject matter is disturbing yet something that must be taught. Educated people should know how easy it is to become a hypocrite when how one behaves is determined solely by how he believes the public will react. Matthew Lewis was not concerned about this. This is what makes him such a great writer. Too many contemporary authors are more motivated to write what they believe the public will like than what is in their hearts. Lewis' book created a sensation when it was published. He probably realized that he was writing a controversial book, but he believed strongly that what he had to say was the truth and that it should be said. After all, he was writing during the French Revolution, while the Reign of Terror was raging in Paris. People were just beginning to become disillusioned with Reason (because of what they felt it had led to in France), but had yet to become infatuated with sentimentality and passion (as they would during the Romantic era). As such, then, it was a time of transition. Lewis must have been aware of the danger (as he saw it) of people turning back (as they had during the Middle Ages) to Religion for answers in a time of such upheaval. He obviously felt that more Religion was not the answer, that too much Religion can pervert the mind just as too much Reason can. This is why his work is still relevant today. The battle over what role Religion is to play in society still rages today.

These are only a few thoughts I hope will be helpful to those who might consider reading this book. On the surface, the book is a delightful romp into a fantasy realm. Underneath, though, there is a deeper current which reflects the broader course of history and still resonates today
