
I have spent a lot of time and money researching into Mormon history. The big problem is that, as Henry Ford once said "History is bunk". With Joseph Smith and the history of the Mormon church, there are hundreds of accounts that argue that he was an inspired prophet and just as many, an ingenious charlatan. There are even accounts that avoid making a judgement either way and leave it up to the reader to decide. Hence, using history as a basis for discovering the truth about the history of Joseph Smith can be a very frustrating (and sometimes expensive) exercise. The Church itself avoids encouraging the study of historical events to gain testimony, but instead promotes the individual member to gain a spiritual testimony. It is easy to see from my statement above, why.

This book takes a completely different approach in investigating the truthfulness of what Joseph Smith produced. Forget about what might have happened in the early 1800's and instead, focus on the actual record contained in the Book of Mormon itself. Let current day investigation be the basis for the search of truth instead of historical personal accounts. This removes any bias of the source material and hence allows for an objective study.

Thomas Stuart Ferguson starts out as the Book of Mormon's most enthusiastic proponent. He sacrifices a large portion of his life both petitioning the First Presidency for financial support, and performing extensive archaeological expeditions to find evidence of the civilisations documented in the Book of Mormon (BofM). While he expects an abundance of material to be discovered, he finds none. Nothing. No evidence of the language or writings contained within the BofM, the animals and crops mentioned, artefacts, city names, weapons, metals, glass etc. Nothing for the period documented within the BofM (2500 BC - 400 AD). There are few discoveries outside this timeline, but none within. All he wanted (and expected) to find were actual artefacts or at least murals/pictorials showing the above documented items. 

The turning point came when fragments of the Joseph Smith papyri were rediscovered in the late 1960's and found to contain nothing in common with The Book of Abraham. This is a completely separate quest in itself (see "By His Own Hand Upon Papyrus").

While Ferguson may have lost his faith, he never left the LDS church and continued to attend and support it - he even sent a son on a mission. He believed the Mormon church was "the best fraternity on earth". In public, he was a "normal" member, in private circles he believed Joseph Smith was a fraud and as a result, spent the remainder of his life researching why.

This book is both a document detailing Ferguson's quest for the truth, and his way of dealing with it from the result.
