
   One reviewer of this book said he's sick of investing tomes, they offer no practical benefit except to enrich the authors, who usually run money management firms for which the books are meant to recruit clients. 

   And of course those firms charge hefty fees, even if their timing is slightly off (say, a few years or so).

   Another reviewer loved the book because he realizes he is going to have to work harder to invest successfully over coming years. If only he had read the book in 1999.

   What is not fully understood by many investors is that the money game is run by Wall Streeters with whom you cannot compete and beat over time. Some of the smartest people in the world work on the Street and they are not sharing what they know with anybody. But they want you in the game. They need you. They take care of their biggest clients (and I mean really big) and every client who is not big is late to the table and last to leave, usually at a loss. Because smaller clients start buying what the big players are just starting to sell. Which is why the big holders sell in dribs and drabs over time. Every winning trade requires a losing trade. Too bad, past results are no etc. etc.

   Try to work the market independently against the big guns and you will eventually come to know the meaning of whipsaw. And its consequences. Everybody thinks they can get out in time. Trouble is, when markets tank--stock market, real estate markets--there is no getting out because there are no buyers. It's a free fall without a parachute. Many real estate speculators will learn this in the coming year.   

   The author of this book, Ed Eastering, is well respected and can give you a good view of how the game works. Which is useful in a textbook kind of way. And he attempts to lay out some tips for the solo investor. 

   Trouble is, timing IS everything and the information you need to time the market is not going to be found in any book. Or any proprietary system being peddled over the internet. If it worked that well they would not be selling it to you.

   So what's the answer? 
 
   Contrarian investing? When everybody is long, go short, and vice versa? Good idea but it requires a discipline that can tear apart the innards of a veteran Wall Street trader. It is just not wired into the systems of most people to pull it off. And reliable sell signals are about as hard to find as a legitimate 1918 Inverted Jenny. 

   Another possibility: do what most of the really rich usually do, stuff it into long-term U.S. Treasuries that pay a fixed interest rate and guarantee the principal at maturity. Of course, you have to keep them for the long term, which the really rich can afford to do. Can you? If not, you may sell the bond at a loss that negates the interest you were paid. So you're stuck with safe U.S. short-term notes which mature at par and pay the promised (usually much lower) interest rate. Not very exciting.

   And if inflation pops your interest rate may give you breakeven or less. Well, that's tough unless you had the cojones to buy one of the most volatile commodities in existence: gold. This is a truly ferocious trap that has ruined many. 

   The big guns say don't speculate with money you can't afford to lose. Hey, thanks. That fits about .001 percent of the investing population.

   Read Easterling for the historical big picture. And it ain't a pretty picture. It's all about volatility and volatility is a killer. 

   And so the moral of the story may be to be very careful with your investment decisions. Err on the side of caution. The first consideration of the physician is Do No Harm. The first consideration of the financial investor is Lose Not Thy Wad. 

   Of couse there is the notion that markets investing is really just another excuse to excerise the gambling urge for people who consider casinos crass. If that's you, may luck truly be with you. 
      
   
  
