
In the 1970's, Peter Singer came out with a radical argument which was new in the field of ethics; animal liberation.  

While some philosophers and others had in the past, argued for the necessity of being kind to animals (Schopenhauer probably being the most notable case because of his deep respect for Buddhism), Peter Singer was probably the first philosopher in Western philosophy to set out a systematic rational set of arguments for regarding the rights of animals.  

Singer's primary argument, and a very interesting one, is science has demonstrated we show very close connections to many kinds of animals, particularly in the structures of our vital organs, nervous systems and brains.  Singer gathers some strong evidence from biology showing how many animal species are apparently capable of feeling pain and hence of suffering.  

On these grounds Singer argues animals are entitled to certain rights, at least when they are being used by humans.  The fact animals can suffer means we can't just treat them as another form of material object or resource for our use, but we need to consider them as fellow beings.  

Singer builds up a set of arguments against eating animals, using animals in agricultural contexts, using animals for scientific experimentation, or using animals for commercial research such as the testing of cosmetic products.  Singer draws on some infamous and damning experiments which seem to have caused terrible pain and suffering to animals for little apparent gain in scientific knowledge, including the use of 'rape racks' and virtual torture of infant monkeys in one series of experiments.  At the end of the book, Singer presents several vegetarian recipies and hopes readers will stop eating meat on this example.

Singer's work has been very powerful in its influence, and several philosophers built on and expanded on his work.  However, others have criticized his arguments quite strongly, on many grounds.  It has also become a kind of manifesto for many animal rights campaigners and animal liberationists, some of whom have resorted to violent means to 'free' animals from scientific experimentation.

While I admire Singer's rigorous arguments as well as the formidable evidence he marshals to back it, I cannot entirely agree with them.  It seems that at least some scientific research involving animals is necessary for fighting many awful diseases and conditions which cause terrible human suffering.  I think a total ban on animal research, especially medical research and biotechnology research aimed at improving human health, is excessive.  

Animals also form an essential part of the livelihood of many people around the world.  No doubt in many cases some practices lead to animals suffering, but does this mean all useage of animals in agriculture should be stopped?  Where do we make changes?  When do we make them?  I certainly agree agriculture should be done in such a way animal cruelty is removed, and suffering reduced as much as possible, but preventing all suffering is impossible, and reality will require compromise.  

Also as another ecologist remarked, sometimes practices which cause harm to an individual animal is necessary to protect the overall ecosystem.  Hunting rabbits and kangeroos or cats or horses will cause suffering to these creatures, but is often a necessity in Australia where in many areas these animals are dangerous pests that ruin the native environment through overpopulation or hunting.  

Still, the strongest thing in favour of Singer's thesis is that we do share a profound connection with nature, and our terrible disregard for the biosphere is coming back to haunt us in the form of mass extinctions of species.  We certainly need to redevelop a sense of what Edmund Wilson calls 'biophilia', a sense of affinity with nature and the natural world, rather than simply seeing it as another object to gratify our desires
