
I'm a little late in reading this book.  I am trying to pace myself between the movies and the books so that I can enjoy a little Harry Potter at least every year.  
  I think Goblet of Fire is the best in the series, so naturally it would be pretty difficult for Phoenix to live up to that standard.  In Goblet, it feels like Rowling had a fantastic ending in mind, and that drove the writing of the story.  In Phoenix, it seems like the story is key and the ending was simply tacked on to round it out and provide some concluding information.  The major theme seemed to be the Ministry's takeover of Hogwarts.  I found that entire thread to be thoroughly engrossing.  Harry's dreams, however, took on sub-plot status, and then rose to the top for the final conflict.  
  I didn't mind the length of the book, but it did seem to drag in a couple of places.  The gang spent too much time at Grimmauld Place.  I could have also done without Hagrid's giant story.  
  My biggest problem with the book was Dumbledore's secrecy.  Good stories have real roadblocks to keep the hero from achieving his/her goal.  In Phoenix, the cause for most of the confusion was that Dumbledore was reluctant to share certain information with Harry.  He explains his behavior in a most unconvincing way in the final pages.  The secrecy was necessary for the story to take the course that it did, but it lacked good motivation and left me feeling let down.  It reminded me of the natural disaster movie template where the world could be easily saved if not for an arrogant bureaucrat who refuses to listen to the young upstart with all the answers.  It is contrived conflict that is hardly believable.
  Don't get me wrong.  I love the Harry Potter series.  And, perhaps my expectations have risen too high.  I am eagerly awaiting the movie and then I know I will devour book 6 (when I allow myself to read it).  I lose interest in most book series after the first couple of installments.  Harry Potter always leaves me wanting more
