
Jared Diamond has an ambitious goal: explain the history of mankind globally.
His thesis is quite simple: different people had different histories because of geographical (environmental), not innate (racial) differences. He presents, develops and defends his point of view brilliantly and forcefully.

Some people remained hunters-gatherers, while others became masters of the world.
The crucial factor in human history is food. The availability of materials (plants, animals) for domestication leads to the production of food surpluses in some geographical fertile regions, which allowed the feeding of specialists outside agriculture (craftsmen, warriors, bureaucrats, priests, kings). Intensive food production, population size and societal complexity stimulated each other as fewer peasants were needed to feed the whole population. Craftsmen developed maritime, military and industrial technology and warriors conquered new territories.
Population growth generated a centralized organization (a state structure) for decision making (politics) and conflict resolutions (law).
Domestication provided other cardinal advantages. Infectious diseases evolve from animal diseases. Through intimacy with animals people became immune. But, when not immunized populations came in contact with immunized, they were wiped out. Also, animals could be used as power engines and warrior transport means.
Other important historical factors were those related to transmission of acquired knowledge: migration and, cardinally, writing.

While hunter-gatherer groups remained more or less egalitarian, states with centralized governments generated great differences of wealth. They became ruled by elite which controlled nearly wholly (kleptocracy) or partially the manna of the state (the budget).
But, how could the elite continue to control the masses?
Jared Diamond sees 4 different solutions: arm the elite and disarm the masses, redistribution of wealth, impose public order and curb violence (police), construct ideology or religion to justify the kleptocracy.
The author remarks judiciously that with the organization of the state the irrational beliefs of the population became institutionalized into an `official' religion.

All in all, Jared Diamond's book is a magisterial and very revealing Darwinian essay about power problems and survival of the human species.
A must read for all those interested in the history of mankind.
