
Barrow, an astronomer at the University of Sussex when this book was published, provides an entertaining and informative account of the foundations and philosophy of mathematics.  Do mathematicians invent or discover mathematics?  What 'reality' do mathematical entities like pi have?  What accounts for what physicist Eugene Wigner has called, in a now-famous paper, Aquot;The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural SciencesAquot; (299)?  After an interesting account of the history of counting and numbers, Barrow discusses in succeeding chapters the philosophies of formalism, inventionism, intuitionism, and platonism, a sophisticated version of which he seems to favor.  Perhaps most mathematical workers follow what Alfred Korzybski called Aquot;the 'christian science' school of mathematics, which proceeds by faith and disregards entirely any problems of the epistemological foundations of its supposed `scientific' activitiesAquot; (Science and Sanity 748).  I commend Barrow because he considers these epistemological questions important and writes about them so engagingly.  Barrow's discussions of theories and personalities provide useful background for understanding mathematical foundations.  As for Barrow's conclusions, from a non-aristotelian view, the appeal of platonism seems understandable as an example of identification, the confusion of orders of abstracting.  Barrow doesn't seem to consider that mathematicians may both invent and discover mathematics.  He seems so taken with the effectiveness of mathematics in the natural sciences that the notion of mathematical entities existing solely as high-order abstractions in human nervous systems seems insufficient to him.  As Korzybski pointed out, we live in a world of multi-dimensional, ordered structures or relations.  It does not seem unreasonable, then, that we can map this world with an exact language of relations, i.e., mathematics.  But as Korzybski also pointed out many times, Aquot;the map is not the territory.Aquot
