
The original publication of _The Lives of John Lennon_ in 1988 was accompanied by hysteria.  Much of it emanated from Yoko Ono, who likened Goldman's book to "being punched in the face."  Yoko is a close friend of Jann Wenner of Rolling Stone magazine, which duly ran an article attempting to discredit Goldman's book.  Some of Lennon's fans took this behavior in and assumed that _The Lives of John Lennon_ was forbidden; they would not read it because doing so would make them naughty.  

Now, however, the dust has settled, and _The Lives of John Lennon_ holds up beautifully.  Each contention of Goldman's which was alleged to be outrageous in 1988 stands.  Remember the ridiculous panic over Goldman's portrait of Lennon as a heavy drug user?  That drug use has now been acknowledged by just about everyone who knew Lennon, including Ono and Lennon's first wife, Cynthia Powell.  The same is true about Goldman's claims about Lennon's tendency towards violence (a tendency Lennon himself owned up to in his Playboy interview).  And, while Ono and others acted agitated over Goldman's depiction of Lennon as bisexual, Ono herself is found to have said she considered John Lennon a "closet fag" in a 1981 interview.  (Why, then, was Ono so upset by the appearance of Goldman's book?  Because of what it reveals about her.)    
     
It will be clear to anyone who approaches Goldman's book with a fair mind that the outrage its publication originally sparked was unjustified.  _The Lives of John Lennon_ is not dishonest or flawed in any way.  A perusal at his "Sources" section reveals his awesome thoroghness.  Goldman bravely explored areas of Lennon's and Ono's lives that others shied away from out of deference to Ono, a worshipful attitude towards Lennon, and a reluctance to figure things out.  Albert Goldman was the most fearless and thorough writer to approach this subject.  _The Lives of John Lennon_ might be overwhelming to the infantile fans who deify Lennon, but for those with genuine interest in Lennon, it is indispensable.


   
