
Angels was the smallest college in Cambridge.  It was  built at the beginning of the 15th century.  Fairly had a fellowship.  St. Angelicus students had to find their own lodgings.  Fred Fairly had taken the science tripos and received a first class degree.  He came from a rectory and so his material wants were limited.  He was used to making do. At the end of his first year as a junior fellow he wanted to tell his father he was no longer a Christian.  Fred knew the country was not a place of peace.  The Rectory had been built in 1830.  

Daisy Saunders wanted to know how the human body worked and applied for nursing training.  She was seventeen and her mother had died recently and she was free to live away from home.  Daisy, now known as Saunders, was a probationer during her first year.  She was told to keep her eye on James Elder, an attempted suicide via the Thames.  It was January 1912.  To all the patients, except for the dying, food was of paramount importance.  Elder refused to eat.  The constable had said he was a gentleman.  He asked Daisy if the incident had appeared in the press.  For arranging for a notice about Elder's conduct in the newpaper, Daisy was dismissed.  

Fred Fairly and Daisy were in an accident with bicycles.  A Good Samaritan thought they were married to each other and put them to bed together in the spare room to regain their health.  Fred was enchanted and afterwards he looked everywhere to locate Daisy.  The kindness of the Wrayburns, the Samaritans, gave Daisy a place to stay in Cambridge.  She would do work in the house in exchange for room and board.  She had traveled to Cambridge to find work in a private hospital.  Happily Daisy was employed at the mental hospital and Fred found her again at the Wrayburns'.  They went for a walk in the country.  Fred asked Daisy to marry him.  Mr. Wrayburn told Daisy that Fred could not be a junior fellow if he married.  

In the trial, pertaining to the accident, the journalist, who had accompanied Daisy to Cambridge, was able to identify the man who drove the horse cart wildly causing the accident.  When the heart is broken, efficiency is impaired.  There was some suggestion in the testimony of the journalist that Daisy had been or would have been used, but for the happening of the accident.  Daisy had to leave the Wrayburns and Cambridge because of what was disclosed in court.  Leaving her lodgings, she was free at last to cry over the hurt she had caused Fred.  Daisy and Fred passed each other on her way to the train station.  We do not know what action, if any, resulted.  

Both of the young characters are portrayed as having beautiful consciences.  The writing is elegant.      
