
  In Plain Sight offers an exceedingly thin plot and thin characters, but it is still an enjoyable read owin entirely to author C. J. Box's prowess at telling a story.

  Saddlestring, Wyoming is enjoying the dawning of spring and, unsuprisingly for a police procedural, a possible murder.

  Opal Scarlett, the grand and really mean old lady of Thunderhead Ranches, has disappeared and perhaps has been the victim of foul play. Tom Wayman, an alcoholic fishing guide, is brought in as a suspect. Opal, in violation of the law, charged Wayman and other boaters a fee for navigating the river that runs  through her land. She strung up razor wire across the river and the lazy sheriff thinks a drunken Wayman killed her when he tossed her into the river. Frankly, there's not a lot of excitement here.

  Joe Pickett, Wyoming Game Warden, is dealing with a problematic new boss and his 14 year old daughter, Sheridan. Sheridan just happens to be the best friend of Jule Scarlett, daughter of Hank Scarlett, one of two brothers who might be heir to the big ranch. Of course, they can't find a will and the two brothers are smashing each other with shovels when Joe arrives to drop off Julie. Julie, it turns out, doesn't live with her father Hank. No, she lives with Opal's eldest son, Arlen, on his "side" of the ranch. There's a third brother, Wyatt, who is a bit on the weird side. The very weird side.

  Enter J. W. Keely, a good old boy, who is on the run from Mississippi where he has murdered a couple. On his way to Wyoming to settle a personal vendetta against Joe Pickett, Keely murders a prisoner and then guns down a cowboy who did nothing more than get Keely angry. Again, not much here. Keely is not a convincing bad guy; more like a typed out description of a "bad" guy.

  Under the name of Bill Monroe (which author Box reminds us several times is also the name of a famous country and western musician) goes to work for both of the Arlen brothers.

  Golly gee: several nasty things happen at the Pickett household. Oh my, the FBI keeps inquiring into the whereabouts of  Nate Romanski (or something close to that spelling) who apparently figured largely in a previous novel. All this produces tension in the Pickett household, high job stress, arguments with best friends. Yawn. Just not a lot of excitement here either.

  Finally comes the climax. Rain. Thunder. Floods. Pickett's daughers kidnapped! The truth comes out! Box tries for a surprise ending, but it's kind of like a wet firecracker.

  All that said, "In Plain Sight" is still an enjoyable, if not particularly suspenseful, read. He has a strong writing style and does a nice job of weaving in a feel for Wyoming's people that is, in my opinion, stronger than the underlying story. This is the sixth of the Joe Pickett novels. I won't be going out of my way to read the older ones, but I will keep an eye out for anything new by Box. He's definitely a comer even if he hasn't arrived.

Jerr
