
HACCP is the acronym for Hazard Analysis of Critical Control Points. This text, by Arduser and Brown is the be all and end all on the topic - in my view.  It even comes with a companion CD-ROM that contains all forms from the book in Adobe Acrobat (PDF) and MS Word format. This is a major time saver when it comes to preparing and administering the required tests to staff members and the newly hired.

The comprehensive 530+ page text covers everything I can think of that relates to food safety in restaurants and other eateries. It is designed to teach food service managers and their employees the specifics of food safety in accordance with the FDA Food Code. This excellent training manual is in large print format that makes it easy to read. The writing is easy to understand and the authors were careful to explain key concepts and terms so that even a novice can study it alone.

The seven comprehensive chapters in the manual cover the following topics: Hazards to Food Safety; Factors Affecting Food-Born Illness; Food Safety Regulations; Following The Flow of Food; HACCP; and the Facility Plan. These are followed by an extremely helpful Glossary of terms. The Appendix includes all forms needed to meet the FDA requirements and to run an efficient and safe establishment. Included are checklists, signage, compliance checklists, and equipment cleaning charts, allergen-control program worksheet along with job descriptions for personnel. There is even a Certificate of Completion to certify that staff members have taken and passed the required tests (included).

With the rise in reports of food-borne illnesses and deaths it is essential that every food service operation adhere to the regulations and safety procedures at all times.  In my view, this book is essential to ensure you are in total compliance. 

As one who has conducted training I find this book deserves 5 stars for its complete coverage of the subject matter in an easy to digest all-in-one format.  I highly recommend this book
