
Anna Anderson/ Anastasia

 
I have researched this great mystery for some time now and I have concluded that the woman, Anna Anderson, could not have been an imposter. Not only did she never give any signs of playing a part, but she was in posession of all sorts of little facts and information that no one on the outside could have known. She knew of Gleb Botkin's paintings before he even came to see her, she knew exactly what she and her sister Tatiana had been doing while WWI was being declared for Russia (this was confirmed by Dr. Rudnev who was visiting Russia and saw Anastasia and Tatiana at that time), she had intimate knowledge of every single royal house in Europe, and could recognize her royal cousins- sight unseen- by their voices alone. One must wonder how a demented Polish farming girl could do that. Aside from just her character, there the many scars and lacerations on her body, as well as the bunions on her feet identical to Anastasia and the cautorized mole on the shoulder which was verified to have been on the young Anastasia as well by a standart officer who did not even support Anna Anderson's claim. For over six decades, Royal cousins and friends to Anastasia would try and trip this woman up with tricks. They would misstate things just to see if she would catch them and she always would. It is virtually impossible for someone to go 65 years without ever being caught in a mistake. Anna had people such as Alexei Volkov and Alexadra Tegleva in tears after having met her because they were so touched. No one has ever yet attempted to explain why Ambassador Zahle and Grand Duke Andrew's papers are still kept secret, why Doris Wingender touched up her photographs in court, or why Pierre Gilliard had his scandalous midnight 'burning' of evidence. To this day, anthropologists who compare Anna Anderson's face, ears, and handwriting specimens to the young girl she claimed to be declare with certainty that the "two" women are the same. 
   The Franziska Schanzkowska story is clearly a lie from beginning to end. Anna Anderson was several inches shorter than Franziska Schanzkowska, wore a size shoe three inches smaller, was not mentally insane like Franziska, she spoke a bad German while FS spoke German as her first language, and could understand Russian. The Schanzkowska siblings did not understand a word of Russian when spoken to them. AA clearly understood Russian. Anderson also gave birth to a child. There is no record of Franziska ever having a child. Recent documents also show that Schanzkowska was never injured in the grenade explosion which supposedly infliced the wounds on Anna Anderson's body. The DNA tests have won the hour, but I hope the future will see the release of Ambassador Zahle and GD Andrew's papers to cast even more doubt on this. Richard Schweitzer's switch theory is very probable given the doubts about the identification with Schanzkowska as well as the security measures which were not that good at Martha Jefferson Hospital during the complicated court battle between Marina Botkin Schweitzer and the Russian Nobiltiy Association. According to Massie's book, one researcher was even allowed access to the intestinal tissue during this time. Is it reasonable that the Royal families would ignore the fact that Anna Anderson was about to recieve recognition as the Tsar's daughter after they had been fighting to disprove her all her life? 
   In any case, the body of Anastasia is still missing, although in Russia there lies a body under the coffin which reads 'Anastasia' measuring 5'7, despite the fact that Anastasia was the shortest of her sisters. If this isn't reason enough to be suspicious that there is some sort of agenda, I don't know what is. I'm afraid however that the body lies in the ashes spread over Castle Seeon under the stone which reads, "Anastasia Manahan 1901-1984". 
   To end this, I will quote Empress Alexandra's best friend (aside from Anna Vyrobouva) Lili Dehn, who met Anna Anderson in 1957(?) and declared, "Don't bother to tell me she has read these things in books. I have recognized her physically and intuitively, through signs which do not decieve. What can I say after having known her? I could not have been mistaken."

This is to explain my conviction that Anna Anderson was Anastasia. I think there is something about the DNA we do not know. 

The File on the Tsar- 2002 edition... p. 362 

'Nearly fifty years ago, Anna Anderson told a story about a sketch she and her sister had put on to amuse their parents during their confinement in Tobolsk. She played a male part, she 'recalled', and and had to borrow a man's dressing-gown. At a pivotal moment in the play, a freak draught made the dressing gown billow up around their thighs, revealing that she was wearing the tsar's long-johns- against the bitter cold of the Siberian winter. The family, said Anna Anderson, had hooted with laughter. 
The only witnesses from the imperial household who would have been present at that scene, and who are known to have survived, were the two family tutors-both foreigners. One was the English tutor, Sydney Gibbes, and his memoirs were published for the first time in 1975. They include this account of an incident during amatuer theatricals in Tobolsk. 
"The cast," Gibbes wrote, "had its happiest night with an Edwardian farce by Henry Grattan, called 'Packing Up', ... Anastasia took the male part... at the end of the farce the 'Husband' had to turn his back, open his Dressing-gown as if to take it off- Anastasia used an old one of mine... but a draught got under the gown and whisked its tail up to the middle of her back, showing her sturdy legs and bottom encased Emperor Jaguer's underwear...' 
So far as exhaustive research can establish, only Anna Anderson had ever before told this vivid ancedote, in private and three decades before the Gibbes memoirs appeared. If Anderson was a phoney, as the seemingly damning DNA evidence now tells us, how did she know the story? 
That was one of the myriad puzzles that believers in Anna Anderson had to confront when the scientists delivered their verdict. Ian Lilburn, a research historian and the only observer to attend every session of the "Anastasia" appeal process in the German courts, had a calmer response than some. "I think," he said, knowing he sounded like a Luddite and Romanov flat-earther, " there is something we don't know about the DNA." 


Maybe after reading you can understand why some of us don't believe the DNA was Anna Anderson's, and why we don't believe she was the tall, size '36 shoe wearing Franziska Schanzkowska who could not have had such exclusive info if she were an imposter.


