
The Reviewers above and below warn that the novel is difficult to read.  If you a person of average intelligence, all you need is a character list and a careful reading and you will have absolutely no problem finding your way through the greatest novel ever written.  (It's an incredibly easy read the second time around.)  

The Sound and the Fury is a summation of Faulkner's works.  Everything that is done in the rest of his novels was first done in The Sound and the Fury.  The Sound and the Fury is poignant and tragic.  It is monumental in its mythical power.  It is Southern and yet it is universal.  It is Faulkner's triumph as a novelist.  It is a study of human consciousness, perception, and existence.  The novel follows the decline and eventual fall of the Compson family.  In Faulkner's world of Yoknapatawpha County, the Compsons and Sartorises, the Sutpens and de Spains, in other words, the established old families of Jefferson declined as the invasive and unethical Snopes, portraits of the modern businessman, ascended to power.  The story is an intimate portrayal of the Compsons, and yet it is a symbolic and mythical account of decline and tragedy.  Why is it the greatest novel ever written?  It takes the innovations in narrative technique as developed by Joyce and Woolf in the movements of European Modernism (which it does better and with more purpose than Joyce and Woolf) and combines them with an exploration of storytelling and an intense devotion to a portrayal of place and region.  The story is great and moving.  The characters are loveable, hateable, tragic, and intensely vivid.  The place is conceived and presented with taxing reality.  The language, as with all of Faulkner's novels, is at times soaring and at times quite terse.  The structure is perfectly balanced and symbolically paired with the passion of Christ (the three days are Good Friday, Holy Saturday, and Easter Sunday).  In short, it is the paradigmatic example of what literature can (and should) do; even the greatest of literary feats stand in its shadow
