
This DVD gives documentary coverage concerning such DA VINCI CODE topics as Rosslyn Chapel, the Priory of Scion, the Knights Templar, the Gnostic Gospels, Le Dossier Secrets, Da Vinci paintings, and Opus Dei.

This DVD, BEYOND THE DA VINCI CODE seems to bend over backwards, measuring every narrated word, to try to support and be sympathetic towards the Dan Brown allegations made in his novel--despite the evidence and expert interviews that they themselves provide in this documentary, they still seem to be in favor of what Dan Brown has written in the DA VINCI CODE.

Out of a half dozen expert interviewees, the most notable are two "big" names who are MAJOR influences on THE DA VINCI CODE book. Margaret Starbird, author of THE WOMAN WITH THE ALABASTER JAR; and Richard Leigh, one of three authors of HOLY BLOOD, HOLY GRAIL, (which was a NY Times Bestseller in 1982), both appear throughout this program. 

These two are probably the biggest proponents of the Jesus/Magdalene conspiracy today, after Dan Brown himself. So it is especially meaningful when Richard Leigh and Margaret Starbird disagree with what Dan Brown has written!

According to expert interviewee Richard Leigh, though THE DA VINCI CODE book says that the Knights Templar found documents to prove the Jesus/Magdalene conspiracy, in reality, NOBODY knows what, if anything, was found by the Knights Templar in Solomon's Temple. 

Leigh also says the whole business about the pentagram, pentacles, 5-pointed stars as mainly representing the "sacred feminine" is NONSENSE--that symbol has been used throughout history to represent other things just as often! 

Richard Leigh also explains that the original Priory of Scion was last referenced in 1619, but the modern day Priory of Scion people from the last 50 years are "bonkers," trying to present a hoax of the LE DOSSIER SECRETS, to try to gain political influence for themselves. 

This LE DOSSIER SECRETS, which appears on the bogus "FACT" page at the beginning of THE DA VINCI CODE book attempts to show a traceable genealogy of descendents of Jesus, but has been debunked for decades in France. It does NOT belong on a page titled "FACT" in the DA VINCI CODE book! That is very misleading, not factual. Brown says the LE DOSSIER SECRETS were discovered, but leaves out the fact that they are commonly known to be phoney!

Margaret Starbird, another major influence on the Dan Brown novel, says that even though she believes in the Jesus/Magdalene bloodline, there is NO PROOF of the bloodline lasting into the French Merovingian line of kings, circa the first millenium A.D.

The documentary, using other expert interviewees and location footage, goes on to debunk the ridiculous claim of the Rose Line alignments being found in significant locations throughout THE DA VINCI CODE novel; as well as showing there is no evidence that Leonardo Da Vinci was a member of the Priory of Scion, let alone the Grandmaster; the rose is NOT the symbol for the Priory of Scion; and Opus Dei has NO INTEREST in the "secret" bloodline of Jesus/Magdalene because they don't believe it even exists.

Sadly, most of the debunking occurs towards the end of the show, in brief statements, before quickly moving on to the next topic; while most of the screen time is spent romanticizing and retelling what Dan Brown's DA VINCI CODE book claims about the Jesus/Magdalene conspiracy.

Overall I was disappointed by this HISTORY CHANNEL DVD for presenting such seemingly wishful support while showing that so much just ain't so in the DA VINCI CODE book--though I am not surprised, the HISTORY CHANNEL usually sides against Christianity on issues to support atheism in their shows, in my opinion.

A much better DA VINCI CODE debunking DVD is BREAKING THE DA VINCI CODE, which more clearly presents the evidence without romanticizing the novel's lies about history and Jesus
