

Whatever else the GLTB community may find laudable about this waste of a video disk, the undeniable fact is that the cover blurbs coyly and disingenuously suggest that it is a comedy, and that is a boldfaced lie.  Featuring world famous funny man Dom DeLuise, the movie is described as what happens when he casts real life lesbians in the roles of two on-stage lesbians...and "sparks fly."  As it is, the only sparks that probably flew occurred when someone with greater sense tried to set fire to the master reels and destroy this boring piece of tripe.

From the movie's self-proclaimed description, and with DeLuise in a major role, the comic possibilities that suggest themselves to the potential viewer are endless:  Does DeLuise KNOW that the actresses are lesbians?  Do the production's other members? Does that derail the production?  What mayhem ensues? 

In point of fact, however, the single attempt at "comedy" comes from DeLuise's portrayal of the director as a prissy, fastidious old queen, pampered and catered to by his boy-toy assistant each time he gets the vapors and overheats.  

The bulk of the movie is essentially dull documentary monologue, as the "actresses" explain to the camera their respective experiences in being cast in the roles of on-stage lovers.  Unfortunately, there is nothing endearing or even slightly interesting about either character and the result is a great bore.  The few flashback scenes where the viewer actually sees the two characters practicing their on-stage roles under DeLuise's fevered direction come across as uncomfortably voyeuristic.  There is an inescapable feeling that the camera, the viewer, AND DeLuise, are intruders.

About the only thing that CAN be said about this film is that Director Lee Friedlander mercifully eschewed the usual Hollywood practice of casting preternaturally beautiful women in the lead roles, thereby adding at least a touch of reality to this otherwise banal effort; the lead actresses look like just any two women off the street.  Other reviewers have commented on the bad, infomercial level acting of the two lead characters.  Whether or not that is accurate depends upon whether the leads, Robin Greenspan and Lacie Harmon, are actually lesbians simply playing themselves.  If so, then this IS bad acting.  If the women are straight, however, one has to at least give them credit for convincing performances.  Sadly, there is not much other credit to be given to anything else about this film.

