
Sure, this movie is a classic. But is it any good? Frankly, I found it to be tedious in the extreme.

It's certainly pleasant to look at. The sets are quite amazing, and the cinematography is absolutely beautiful.

The story (as described in detail in many other reviews here) has potential as both a thriller and a thought-provoking essay (ultimately it is neither).

The acting is top notch, as are all of the special effects. Those of us who cut our teeth using teletype machines always get a kick out of seeing them in all their anachronistic glory. In fact, all of the computer stuff is believable for the era and pleasantly nostalgic.

But the whole thing never rises to its premise. Its "thriller" aspect is artificial and not tied to the central plot line, and entirely predictable from the moment our friend is handed THE ONLY KEY THAT CAN STOP THE NUKE! The resolution is an afterthought (a quick fix in the extreme), and barely even mentioned in about two lines of dialogue after the artificial danger is (narrowly, whew!) averted. The characters are thin at best, and stock at worst.

This movie is really a slow survey of what people in the early 70s thought technology would be like in the mid 70s. Yawn. (I must laugh at the whole bell/paper bit. It means nothing to the plot, and is the ultimate contrivance.)

If a deadly virus actually came back from space, there would certainly be action on many fronts, with plenty of interesting conflict to go around. Some people would try to understand it, others would want only to kill it. There's some potentially interesting tension right there. Some people would argue to keep the danger hidden from the public, others would want to warn them. Again, that could have been a good source of tension. Someone would surely have suspected that the military wanted to harness it as a biological weapon (mentioned in passing, but never developed), while others would try very hard to prevent that. More tension.

I'm just saying that this movie is littered with missed opportunities for something more than the collection of boring experiments and pointlessly slow-moving scenes which it actually contains. This movie is the poster child for boring science fiction, and it would not have had to be that way.

I haven't read the book, but I bet it's a lot better. At its core, this movie is a boring dud.


