
Whatever ills are in the world, it's all the fault of the corporations. That's the basic premise of this terribly misguided one-sided and totally non-objective movie. For example, instead of saying how terrible it is for companies paying people in the developing world peanuts for their work, they forget that these people's alternatives ARE EVEN WORSE and that's why they took that job in the first place!  These jobs provide them with one of the few options they have and, if they chose that job freely, it must be their BEST option, no matter how crazy it seems to us. As people's skills rise, as opportunities increase over time (by having MORE corporations and not less, to create more competition for these people's labor), and as the country becomes wealthier, these people's wages will rise automaticaly and in fact, the wages of the whole country on the average.  There are no shortcuts to his.  A famous story comes from Nepal where anti-child labor laws, at the urging of the UN, turned thousands of kids overnight into prostitutes as those jobs, as sad as it may be, were their best options to avoid starvation and feed their families.  It's a slow process, but all the industrialized nations went through that process.  Government-mandated "shortcuts" usually produce results which are even worse.  However, the results speak for themselves: in VERY short period of time, for example, HUNDRDS OF MILLIONS of people were lifted out of poverty in China, India and around the world thanks for the "evil" capalism A its corporations.  No other system has ever done it so quickly as in the past 15 years in China and India alone.  Also, cost of living is very low there, so these pennies really can go a long way, don't measure it to the cost of living in the West.  What is the filmmakers alternative they offer for these people? I guess to let people starve to death, then the makers of this movie don't have have anyting to complain about!?  Other examples of stupidity include showing that a company is like a person who's a psychopath.  A corpoartion is a legal entity yes, and may act like a separate "being" as far the law in concerned, but does a corporation have a nose, feet, stomach? Can it eat apples or sneeze or have arthritis? Of course, not, than how can you attach a human idea like a psychopath to it??  Several of the main "spokepersons" in the movie, Chomsky, Michael Moore, Rifkin and others are renowned for their off-the-wall comments which frequently have NO basis in any kind of economics or reality.  To correct the inaccuracies in the statements made by these and other people in the movie, you'd have to stop it every 5 minutes and explain to the audience how profoundly wrong the statements are.  Throughout the whole movie, you're basically bombarded by one-sided arguments with VERY little of the other side presented, despite the director's claim of the opposite 9they claim 1/2 A 1/2, it's more like 80%-20%).  Just look at Chomsky's comments about how the consumers are so stupid, they don't realize that all the things they buy they don't really need. I mean we don't need fashionable clothes (hey, let's all dress as boring as Chomsky!), DVD players, or any new gadgets that make life easier or more fun.  Who is the judge of what you REALLY need?  Chomsky, of course. He is the final arbiter of what you really need or what you don't. You're too stupid to know what you want, according to him. He says that you should do "more important things", like...perhaps studying lingistics (which he teaches but which very few care about).  The movie DOES make some correct and good observations, especially regarding polution, however, I'd say that 80% of the movie is factually and logically flawed. It's also FULL of economic fallacies. It's worth watching I guess, just to see how many errors one can make in just 1 movie.  Despite all the ranting in the movie, it fails to mention THE biggest reason of most of the problems it brings up - too much governement interference is every facet of life.  For examples, how could a Government of Brazil forbit the people of collecting rain water! How could the U.S. government do so many things for private companies with public funds?  Just forbid the governments from playing favorites with companies, forbid government corporate welfare of ANY kind, forbid subsidies to companies, cut the suffocating red tape and regulation (esp. in developing countries but in the West too), cut corporate taxes to 5 or 10% (and see unemployment rate go to almost nothing, give people all around the world a better life, increase competition, etc.)  If these and other governments (and not corporations') problems were eliminated, the vast majority of ALL the problems which the movie brings up will simply go away.  An interesing film for anyone to see how the truth can be twisted by mindless people with an agenda to go back to 15th century rural lifestile (spoken about with much admiration), people with NO understanding about economics, how the world really works and how to REALLY raise the billions out of poverty who this movie does the biggest disservice for.
