
Okay, the script is not the most imaginative I've ever seen, but I like the actors (especially Ben's best man) so I was friendly with this movie for the most part.  I didn't even mind the obvious holes in the plot, such as...why do these characters not have credit cards or cell phones? Or at least, why don't they use them?  Oh no, much more plausible that Ben will have to strip dance in a gay bar for $150 to buy a car to drive to NC.  I didn't even mind the fact that the whole "We're married and my husband's a doctor." charade was so predictable. Oh Gee, he's pretending to be a doctor and he's on a tour bus with a bunch of elderly people. D'ya think someone might have a heart attack and "Dr. Holmes" might have to step up?  And uh, they're pretending to be married and Oh! surprise there's the best man and maid of honor! D'ya think they're gonna get busted?

What killed it for me was that ridiculous ending.  It was obviously supposed to be a surprise (and it was) but there seemed to be no other reason for it than to pull a fast one on the audience.  I felt cheated. I spent the entire movie getting emotionally involved with the relationship between Sarah and Ben, and I really cared about how they would handle things with the fiance and Sarah's little boy and all that.  I cheerfully became disengaged from the relationship between Ben and Bridget, I totally believed neither one of them was ready to get married or right for each other.  The film spent an inordinate amount of time showing me they're not right for each other and that this wedding was not meant to happen.  RIGHT UP TO THE LAST MOMENT, we think he's breaking it off with Bridget. Instead, what the heck let's just go ahead and get married after all.

Huh?  He left Sarah sitting out there waiting for him in a HURRICANE!!! after making her promise that she would still be there when he got back.  This man obviously doesn't have a clue what he wants in life, and I'm expected to believe they lived happily ever after?

Not only that, but what does it teach us about taking this commitment seriously?  It teaches us that if our instinct is telling us "don't do it!" and our genitals are yearning for someone else and even Mother Nature seems to be working hard to prevent this marriage, aw heck go on ahead and do it anyway.  It's just marriage. It's romantic! You could get lucky and live happily ever after!

It's been my experience, when things aren't feeling just right as you approach that wedding, turn and run. The last thing you should do is close your eyes, grab your balls and take the leap
