
This show deserved to get cancelled, and there's a very simple reason.  This is supposedly dry, subtle comedy for people who don't usually like dry, subtle comedy.  It's a show that was presented to the FOX audience, an audeince that normally likes the most inane, low-brow kind of humor, that doesn't know what dry comedy is and would fall for a pitiful imitation of it.

Meanwhile, to people who actually appreciate subtlety and dry humor, the so-called comedy in the show is unbelievably obvious and predictable.  Every time a line is spoken on that show that is supposed to be a joke, it's clear how forced and contrived it is, how hard the creators of this show are trying to fake dry humor, something they clearly don't understand.  It's embarrassing for someone with appreciation for humor to watch, because the jokes are so uninspired and fall so flat.  It's just an awkward mess.

But those aren't the people this show is targeted at.  It's targeted at that FOX audience who has never even seen dry humor before, and so anything even resembling it is new and amazing to them.  They think this show is brilliant because it's a little smarter than MAD TV, or at least thinks it is.  And since those are the people who are seeing the show, you hear all these people raving about how brilliant it is.  If the show were on HBO or some other network, exposed to a different kind of audience, you would hear a lot more negative response to it from people who like dry comedy that actually works.

So why did this show get cancelled, when so many people think it's so amazing?  If it's so great, people would have actually watched it, right?  So where were the ratings?  The fact is, the people who love this show are a very vocal minority.  The audience for dry humor didn't watch this show because it's not funny.  But the audience who was fooled by this show, as vocal as they are, was just too small:  they were people who were encountering something other than inanity for the first time in their lives and thought it would make them look smart to pretend to like it.

This is not one of those shows that was cancelled because it was too smart for TV, as its apologists claim.  No, it simply was a completely unfunny failure that was only impressive to people who have never heard anything but fart jokes
