
Sixth Sense A Unbreakable are so much better than Signs, and I'm sorry to say whatever M. Night Shyamalan originally had, he's lost. When Sixth Sense came out, he was tipped as the next big thing, but I'm sorry to say, it's no longer there. In my mind, he cannot match any films up to the success and sheer uniqueness of Sixth Sense.

Signs just fails miserably. The concept was a good idea, but the execution was terrible. It reminded me very much of Blair Witch Project, as in what little action there was happens off screen, and the torches as well. It's also definitely not Mel Gibson's best film. Even the actors appear to struggle with the dialogue-heavy script, and not really much happens. Apart from one brief glimpse of an alien. Oooh. Fascinating.

The problem I think that Signs has, is that it's already following many other, far superior, alien movies. Aliens attacking the earth has been done, and lots more memorable than this. There's also the overly religious theme, which the film probably would have done better either toning down, or scrapping altogether. It was really just thrown in to try and justify what was happening in the film. The scenes between Gibson and his kids and his brother are way too sentimental and really cringeworthy.

The finale doesn't really make the film better. The discovery that the naked aliens find water like acid to their skin is atrocious! Why come to earth, the surface of is mostly covered in water, and the atmosphere is full of water droplets and vapour?! And then they travel millions of light years with far advanced technology - and then can't break into a wooden house?! Are you kidding me? But the most ridiculous thing is not only do the characters not pay attention to the dogs, who sensed something was not right (time to get myself a dog), but the fact that all the sophisticated radar equipment cannot detect the aliens entering our atmosphere - but a BABY MONITOR can?! Huh?!

A film to stay well away from. Thankfully, I didn't spend my hard earned (ha!) money on it, but borrowed it from a friend. I shall approach M. Night Shyamalan's films with trepidation from now. Oh, and when a director decides to give himself a speaking role in his own film, make it a SHORT one
