
As an environmental scientist, I find these soft-science/hardball political presentations of the global warming discussion distressing and unhelpful. While they rally the convinced, having partisan political types at the forefront of the discussion is probably unhelpful. To wit, about a third of this movie turns out to be a self promotion video complete with a replay of 2000 election footage. 

About the "movie": it's actually a filmation of the presentation Al Gore has made for some time on Global Warming. In it he tries to make the case that nearly everything we are measuring on this dynamic earth is the result of man-made CO2 and other green-house gasses. The audience is bombarded with a long series of charts, graphs, and suppositions that make for a compelling argument - IF one has little or no knowledge coming into the presentation.

And this is where this production goes terribly wrong, the fact checking was terrible, the cherry-picked data was obvious and heavy-handed, and finally the movie ends up serving those who oppose any discussion of global warming more than it helps the cause. Two examples: 

An Inconvenient Truth asserts that a sea-level rise of 20 feet is a realistic short-term prospect - yet, the 2005 joint statement by the science academies of the Western nations warns of sea-level rise in the four to 35 inches range in the 21st century.

Gore discusses the Earth's atmosphere as relatively thin, and declares that, "The problem we now face is that this thin layer of atmosphere is being thickened by huge quantities of carbon dioxide." Hello? Thickness has nothing to do with global warming people. Carbon dioxide has molecular bonds that vibrate on the same wavelengths at which infrared energy radiates upward from Earth's surface - meaning that the vibration warms the CO2, which makes things hotter. Further the references to nitrogen are pure nonsense, since it doesn't play a role.

My warning is to not let the politicians ruin the scientific process, no matter how noble the cause may be.
