
My friend bought this set and so I was able to view it before purchasing it myself, and I WON'T be purchasing it. I had seen The Long, Long Trailer before and it was one of the most aggrivating movies I have ever seen; one of those films where you can't believe 2 people could be so dumb to do some of the things they do. We enjoy most of the I Love Lucy series, but there is a point where you can only take so much of those shows; the aggrivating ones, and this film was just an overly long aggrivating I Love Lucy episode. There is funny humor and aggrivating "humor" and this was definitely the 2nd type. 

Yes, it was interesting to see Lucy and Desi doing films together, but overall these films are just tolerable, and none are ones I would rewatch for enjoyment. Too Many Girls was definitely a B picture, really really bad in so many ways...poorly written script, cheap scenery; you never got the feeling they were in college, except at the football game, which seemed so similar to the football game the Marx Brothers participated in in Horse Feathers! Too much partying, singing, dancing; what was this school majoring in, theatre and opera?  It just is a really bad picture. Yes, neat to see Lucy and Desi and how they met, and see them so young together, but otherwise, a real time waster in my mind. The funniest thing on this disc was the cartoon extra!

Of the three, Forever, Darling is probably the best but again that seemed "lacking" somewhere. The color was that beautiful almost surreal 50's color that I like. The Yosemite scenery was beautiful too. But I think the angel stuff could have been much better developed; he was out of the scene too long at times. The part I liked best was Lucy imagining herself in the movie with James Mason because it was quite funny. But the camping trip was just a very predictable mishap time that was too much in the I Love Lucy mold and I was bored with it quickly.

I know die hard fans of Lucy and Desi will buy this no matter what, and that's fine. But for others, I advise you see them first...you may like them, but then you may see them for what they really are cinematically. There are lots better movies out there that I would rather buy! I Rate these 2 stars; one star to me is "torturous" to watch. These aren't THAT bad, but almost.
