
How High is a film that lends nothing, I repeat, nothing to the film community at large.  I have read some critics that say that this film introduced a whole new generation to the Cheech A Chong of the new millennium with the Redman/Method Man pairing.  While most seem to agree that this is a horrible film, very few of them mention how utterly racist the overall experience happens to be.  When I use the word racist, I mean that it builds upon the degenerate clich\ufffds that African Americans struggle with on a daily basis with our society.  While there were elements in this film that seemed like there was some reverse racism occurring, what struck me hardest in the face was how embarrassing Method Man and Redman must be to both the film community, but also to their own culture.  I have a very open mind when it comes to social issues as well as films, but this one left my jaw on the floor several times.  The blatant swings at African American stereotypes were meant to be a source of humor for director Jesse Dylan, but instead fell flat on their embarrassed face.  Humor was in very short supply in this film due to the ethnic stereotype clich\ufffds that seemed to be used nearly every second of this film.  Nothing was original.  Nothing was exciting.

Was the pairing of Redman and Method Man an idea of comedic proportions?  I think not.  As you can tell from their short lived series after the release of this film, the corporate world wanted to cash in on these two rappers, but soon realized that they were not as bankable as they thought.  Why?  Method Man and Redman, who completely different people, were nothing more than the same character in this film.  With the very subtle hints of Method Man being smarter, nothing could separate the equality of these two characters.  That is why they failed as a comic team.  Think of Matthau and Lemmon or the above example of Cheech A Chong, what made these teams work while the How High team crashed and burned?  What worked the best were the differences that uniquely drew the pair together.  Their differences made us laugh and sympathetically brought them together, but with Method Man and Redman, they were the same.  I was watching the same two characters fight through the same two challenges in this film. What tried to be funny instead transformed into repetitive.  What Dylan did to counter the similarity between Redman/Method Man was bring in obscure secondary characters that added nothing to the flimsy plot or helped us feel emotion for our two main characters.  The clich\ufffd jock, the clich\ufffd frat boy, the clich\ufffd Asian (which was again another racist moment), and the clich\ufffd rich white boy, just felt and were old.  Watch college films from the 70s and you will see these same combinations, but what makes the films from the 70s different is that they used them with originality.  How High, from beginning to end, was anything but original.

I must admit, after watching this film of which Harvard was willing to loan their name to, I don't want to go to Harvard.  They should have pondered the effects this film would have upon their prestige heritage.  How High is a dark spot in Harvard's history.  Do you know what makes it even worse?  This film wasn't even created at or anywhere near Harvard.  Again, Dylan was cutting corners to create a false sense of realism that continued to hurt this film.  How High has no redeeming qualities.  Ooops, I stand corrected.  The only smile that was ever created on my face during this film was when Spalding Gray spoke.  How did they get him and Fred Willard to do this film?  I have said it once, I will say it again, some actors just need their bills paid.  Inconsistency, incompetence, and aggravation seemed to be the hidden themes of this dud.  What destroyed this film further is that if you take the actors away and look at the story in general, it is nothing.  There is no original story at all with How High.  Going to college, working for your grades, winning over the heart of the President right at the last minute - this was nothing short of a "cut and paste" film that had no backbone and horrid acting!

I do not like Jesse Dylan's style of directing.  While I think Kicking and Screaming is his prized film (due greatly to Will Ferrell), all of his films seem to be extremely choppy with the editing and are randomly interjected with an overdose of unnecessary scenes.  The John Adams scene in How High is a prime example.  The Benjamin Franklin moments is another.  The unconcluded "Truth Serum" can be considered another.  How High was just scene after scene of inconsistency.  Lumpy oatmeal would win first place before this film would ever be congratulated!  I blame a majority of the issues with this film on Jesse Dylan.  If he would have tightened the script, created unique and "cult-like" characters, and eliminated the racism, he may have had the quintessential "weed" film in Hollywood.  Now, all he has is a violent case of the munchies and nothing to show for.  Sad.

Overall, this was one of the worst films that I have witnessed.  Never have I been so emotionally charged about the racist moments in this film as I have with How High.  The actors, all around, were horrible.  The story had no legs to stand on and it became very obvious after the opening credits that unless you were either 10 to 15 years of age, this film would never be considered a comedy.  Nothing was funny.  Nothing will make you laugh.  The only part worth enjoying in this film is the ending credits.  The ending credits give you a chance to walk away and forget this part of your cinematic life.

Grade: * out of ****
