
Roger Ebert, a review I greatly respect and normally agree with, raved about this flick.  Roger, I love you, but you missed the boat on this one.

I'm not going to review the plot because it's been done by several reviewers already.  Suffice it to say, David Lynch didn't get enough of symbolism interpretation in freshman English ("Okay, class, who wants to discuss the meaning of the impaled pig's head on page 72 in Lord of the Flies?  David, how about you?") and now want to inflict it on you, the unwitting movie watching public.  Thanks, Mr. Lynch, but I'll pass.  I didn't enjoy figuring out the obscure symbolism in page after page of Crime and Punishment and I didn't enjoy it in scene after scene of Mulholland Drive.   

To add insult to injury, Lynch prides himself on putting scenes in his movie that make absolutely no sense, rationalizing it by saying life often doesn't make sense.  This habit of his is less noticible in this film than, say, Twin Peaks, mostly because the whole film is for the most part senseless.  Yeah, it's true that a lot of things are absurd in my own life, but more along the lines of "...I would've won Powerball this week except I spent my lottery money on a scented candle at the RenFaire, what the heck was I thinking..." or "...I wasted 2 1/2 hours of my life watching this dumb movie, what the heck was I thinking..." but I've yet to be visited by scrawny cowboy or a wheelchaired dwarf.  I must live a sheltered life or something.

Lynch also forbids chapter cuts in his DVD, believing his movie must be watched in its entirety, or not at all (I'd advise the second.)  To be fair, in this case I don't think he's motivated entirely by a exaggerated sense of importance, but rather by the knowledge that every male, if given the chance, would overshoot most of the movie and focus on the hot chick on chick action.  C'mon all you 5 star givers, admit it!  You find the movie pretentious and silly, but the topless scenes more than make up for all the drippy pseudo-art!  

To reiterate, if I wanted to see a boring and pointless dream sequence I'll rewatch Dallas - if I wanted to see a nice rack I'll take my top off and look in the mirror.  Who needs Mulholland Drive
