
For what purpose these lies about the life of this man? Are the liberal film makers racists who don't believe that there is a good black man to depict on film so they have to lie? If someone wanted to write fiction about a badass black fighter on the cusp of super stardom who is framed for a murder then be my guest. Hurricane carter is not and was not that man.

Facts:
In the movie denzel washington is shown in military garb with more medals on his cheat than colin powell. They want to drive home the point that here was a man who served his country and is now about to be screwed by it. Fact is carter was kicked out of the army after being court mashalled 4 times!

In a title fight scence with an italian american fighter named giodello carter is depictied as beating this man pillar to post only to be screwed out of the decision he so richly deserved. Fact, giardello deserved to win that fight according to the overwhelming number of experts who have viewed it then and now on tape. The depitction is another lie.

Another lie is this notion put forth in the movie that hurricane was on the verge of getting that title before mean white bigots framed him for this murder. Fact is that carter's boxing career was going down hill and he had only won 8 of his last 15 fights. As carter's boxing career failed he became more militant in his political views and hated white people. While in prison he was diagnosed to be psychotic. Yeah a psychotic racist is the model for black america. Shame.

Norman jewison must not think much of black folks to make a movie of lies like this. Denzel washington should be ashamed he participated in such trash. Those who produced this trash bet that the average public would be gullible enough to believe these lies with no attempt at knowing the truth and hollywood didn't care; they just like the message. Looking at these reviews i have to say they made a good bet. America bashing and race baiting is alive and well, earning oscars and making for big box office. A shame.



  
