
1. Make sure you set your film in some sort of terrible alternate future where all people are slaves or unhappy or kept under sedation or something.

2. Have every scene take place in the dark.  And your underworld must be lit by 15-watt bulbs.

3. Clothe everyone in black leather, particularly capes.  This especially works for the villains, but in the interest of equal play the heroes can be edgy and wear black leather too.  If they're villains, shave their heads.  Give them sunglasses (for the dark!)

4. Copying Terry Gilliam's masterpiece Brazil, throw something retro like brimmed fedoras into the wardrobe.

5. Have a premise where our hero, a lone, semi-geeky guy, wakes up or somehow finds himself in a world he does not remember getting into.  He must clear his name of something, even if it's just getting off Pottery Barn's mailing list.

6. Have a Mysterious Woman who may or may not be in cohoots with the bad guys, but who falls in love with our hero and wants to save him by the end of act II.

7. Make damn sure she's sultry.  Though blondes are generally more popular these days in Hollywood, here dark brunettes work best.

8. Have lots of issues that revolve around our brains being dicked with.  Throw in lots of tortured dialogue about alternative consciousnesses/universes/fuel supplies/sugar substitutes.

9. This is very important: USE THE RHETORICAL LINE AT LEAST ONCE: "DO YOU KNOW WHAT WILL HAPPEN IF YOU [find the Kiber Crystal/try to rescue your love-interest/defy Dr. Morphface/turn on a bright light]?"  Indeed he (and we) don't.  This is supposed to get us all scared and anxious.

10. Our hero should have had, if possible, a happy childhood that turned tragic.  Slaughtered parents work great here.  Of course, he doesn't remember any of it, at least at first.

11. Populate your world with lots of machines with tubes, wires, cables, and ducts.  There also should be flashes of lightning that serve no purpose.

12. Make sure your sets and costumes were "derived" from some black and white classic film from the 20s or 30s--Metropolis, Caligari, even Frankenstein will do nicely.  This is both to show you have a "legitimate pedigree" and to cover up the fact that you have no original ideas yourself.

13. Make sure all the bad guys bite off their dialogue and sound mean.  This is how we know they are bad guys, since lately both sides have been wearing black leather.

14. The guy gets the girl in the end and the sun comes out.  Really now, do we have to say this??? (However, through most of the movie we must believe the love will be unrequited.  The dame should have a troubled history, though you must keep it vague.)

15. Throw in some cyborgs.  You gotta have cyborgs. 

16. Have sets that are about fifteen times larger than they need to be, but which are largely empty.

17. There's always the authority figure who starts out in pursuit of our guy, but who by the end becomes convinced of his innocence and moves to his side.

18. There was some vague, recent apocalyptic event that destroyed most of civilization.  But be brief here.  Our audience may get to wondering how one guy saving one girl will restore all of civilization, and you don't want them thinking about that.

19. Include a sadomasochistic scene or two.  The current favorite is to strap the victim spread-eagled on a rotating mechanical device and stick him with needles.  This movie likes to stick them through the bone at the front of the skull, a really stupid place to insert a needle (but then, this screenwriter clearly isn't a brain surgeon).

20. Always have a big shoot-em-up climax with lots of explosions, steam, smoke, distorting of the picture with computer tricks, and loud rock music.  This is how we resolve things when we have no idea what the hell we're talking about or how to end the movie.  We hope nobody notices.  Generally they don't.

Follow this primer, and whatever you come up with will be called bold and visionary by people whose filmgoing history doesn't extend before 1995, and Roger "I don't wanna become critically irrelevant" Ebert
