
Well I went to the concert and the whole time while I was watching it, I was glade they where coming out with a dvd because DVD can HOLD lots and LOTS AND LOTS of information and why would they cheap out and not put every artist with every song on here why I WOULD BE 100$ I don't care I want to see it all. And well I waited months and months, wondering waiting for it to come out, I went there with 3 other friends and it was the thing of a life time. Then it was time the P%$%# @%#T DVD of the century. THank you EMI for destroying a historial document so you can get all your SIGNED Contracts on to your DVD. Well now all I have to do is use my Time Machine and Get a tape ready and tape the Damn concert. Wait TIme machines doen't exist well now I am going ot have to go underground to get it. But wait I still $100 will EMI Release all the videos on DVD or do we have to go underground to get it from someone who tapped it and is selling it. All I can say this is why the internet was invented for INFORMATION EXCHANGE. If they keep information paticularly this Historical Document from people, they will share it over the internet. The video doesn't belong to 1 Company it belongs to the world, the world created this and WHO does EMI think they are by limiting this. I am so sick and tired of this utter B$%# @#$T. No one should settle for this, I demand more and Everyone should demand more also.3 Billion People watched 1 million spectaters. And what does EMI Tell you, they will put the crappiest DVD together and then make everyone take the videos down of there website. I believe I shall find them all and put them up on Wikipedia because it isn't 1 Person who owns the worlds creation. Anyone who believes in this should know what it means to them Every Extra CEnt of this DVD should go to AFrica and it doesnt it and its a Bloody shame. All I can say Is I am making sure this goes on to Every Review for this damned DVD untill something is done about it. 

VIVA LA RISTANCE : D
-THE REAL LENBO
