
I picked this set up despite reservations (reservations being Luke Perry and the guy from the Cosby Show) because of the creator J. Michael Straczynski. Unfortunately the show is just not up to snuff. 

It's really nothing more then a C average show. Normally that's not a big deal but when you consider this is on a premium channel (Showtime) and costs over $70.00 on DVD it's just not good enough. 

Specific problems I had with the show include a lot of filler episodes. The season is only 18 episodes long and at least half are stand alones that contribute nothing to the overall story line. The show would have been better off with only 12 episodes all geared towards a single over riding story (this is the model that HBO uses). 

Production value is also sorely lacking. Once again I'm going to compare to HBO (I feel this is fair since these are both pay to view networks). The HBO series Carnivale has unbelievable production value, the set's, locations, costumes and visual effects are all motion picture quality (the same can be said for Deadwood and Rome but Carnival makes for a better comparison). But Jeremiah all looks the same. You can tell the show was all shot in the same location, every back road and town look like they are in the same county.

The biggest problem however is just the premise. A post genocidal virus world populated by orphaned children seems like a good idea but in practice it get's tired fast. I had to force myself through the last 9 episodes. Luke Perry's quest to find Valhalla sector fails to add any intrigue or mystery. Simon's quest to rebuild civilization also comes up flat and any moral or social lessons conveyed are thinly veiled. So basically it is neither exciting nor intelligent. Plus if you need any other reason to dislike this show then know that Jason Presley makes a guest appearance (just what this show needed a 90210 reunion).

If you're looking for a great show this is not it. If you can watch it cheap give a whirl but don't waste any hard earned cash on this one
