
What do we do
When first started watching wrestling in my early teens, Ric Flair was a hero of mine, he matches were funny and he cut the best promos ever. 

So when this DVD came out I got it immediately, hoping to relive my youth, but I realized something. All the matches are the same, there long and dull, the same moves are done over and over, and the matches only pick up when Flair opponent takes the advantage. There is nothing wrong with long matches, if that are done well, like the Iron man match between Bret Hart and Shawn Michaels, but it feels like these matches are long of the sake of being long, so it can show Flairs endurance. 

I also noticed Flair is so repetitive, all wrestler use trademark moves, but flair has been using the same handful of moves his entire life, for example, chop...woo...flair flop...figure four...cheat....win, that not a description of one flair match, that's every flair match. When I started watching wrestling I only saw his WWF matches, so it all looked new to me, when you watch his matches back to back you realise how boring they are. Other wrestler have put together DVD, which shows a variety of different matches such as Eddie Guerrero, Chris Benito, Bret Hart A Shawn Michaels, all top wrestler adopt to there opponents, Flair expects his opponents to adopt to him, that's way all his matches are the same. 

The only thing worst then his DVD is his book, I lost all respect for Flair after a read his book, it seem that he is just like HHH and Shawn Michaels in that he does not have the balls to say anything to anyone to their face, put does it behind their backs. He bashes Mick Foley for being a stunt man, who only does gimmick matches, so what's HHH, a guy flair calls great, can anyone name a good HHH match that isn't a gimmick match (WM X-7 against the undertaker does not count because it turns into a street fight). He says Foley kisses the writers asses when everybody knows that he is the ultimate back stage player, who used booking rights to award himself 16 world titles. He critises Bret Hart for not putting over Shawn Michaels at Survivors Series 97, when he was called upon to job to Lex Luger before he left who the WWF. he refused and took the title with him to WWF, brining the WCW to its knees. 

After watching this DVD, reading his book, and seeing how his using backstage politics at the WWE now, to keep himself in the limelight, its fair to say the Ric Flair is one of the most overrated wrestler in history and by the way I could have won 16 world title if I had my friends booking the show
.
