
Maybe the 1995 script was edgy and groundbreaking, but I doubt it. Since Vanilla Ice was in and out of the cultural eye 4 years before the spec script and 15 years before this movie, the concept of white kids trying to act black in the most ugly ghetto stereotypes is just not all that new. I went to high school with kids like this and I've bought the Eminem CD. And there's a little more to them than the stupidity. But let's discuss the movie.

Anne Hathaway plays a dumb girl who thinks that acts ghetto in her gated community and urges her boyfriend to go buy drugs in East L.A. (??). Seeing her boyfriend beat down, she's eager to return and find that hot latino dude that did the beating. Then she goes to parties, gets into even more trouble and starts losing her Jerry Springer-inspired ghetto talk. The Mexican guy keeps trying to tell her that there's more to his life than selling crack on the street corner, but well he's doing a lot of selling crack on the street corner. Actually, he's coming off like a gangsta Yoda ready to impart life lessons at the drop of a hat. Yes, it's ironic that she's trying to dress ghetto while he's trying (not very hard) to dress suburban (wife beater is suburban?)

The movie's climax is a scene in which Anne and Bijou ask the guys if they can join their "crew" and if the gang didn't have a sex gang initiation for women before they asked, they sure have it then (and really, who doesn't know that that's gang initiation standard - started by the Hell's Angels in 1965). After that disaster (both Anne and Bijous say no - but Bijou takes a little more time saying no) the movie unravels as Anne Hathaway discovers her inner WHITE GIRL and her friends act even more stupid. There's a neat scene between her and Bijou Philips toward the end that almost makes me like these people, but it's one of the few points of truth in an otherwise dumb movie.

The one thing this movie does is to make me appreciate DJ Squalls' character from Hustle A Flow (and Hustle A Flow in and of itself) since that's a white character in a black world that doesn't fall into either extreme of wigger or Doogie Howser. He's just himself whereever he goes. He's someone the morons of this movie could learn from (but really wouldn't you rather just see them all shot dead?
