
I am sorry to report that this movie is dead on arrival, and I have to agree with anybody that says this movie is [...]. The whole cast is wasted in this movie, and most of which I have seen in movies that I liked better. Like pretty much the leads in this movies, I have seen thier movies and liked htem better in, but this one, they might as well. If your a Tim Allen fan, please do yourself a favor, and get either the Santa Clause movies, or the Toy Story movies, and avoid this movie at all costs. Here are 99 minuts of my life, that I won't see again, and I am trying to make sure that you don't waste your time on this dud. Who wants to see an actor pretned to be a dog, in some scenes in the movie, ore pretty much the whole thing. I haven't seen Monster House or Cars, but I hope that these will be 2 better movies, or maybe a season dvd of Home Improvement will be pretty then this. Dave Douglas (Tim Allen) is a lawyer, that dislikes dogs, and even has a case against animal activist Justin Forrester (Joshua Leonard). And he is up for accused of trying to torch the California headquarters of sinister pharmaceutical conglomerate Grant A Strictland. And he doesn't much of a family life, since he is never home, and how many times have we seen something like this in a movie? His wife is Rebecca Douglas (Kristin Davis) and they have 2 children Josh (Spencer Breslin) and Carly (Zena Grey). And he has an appoontment to Josh's PTA meetings, and even through he is reminded at work, he forgets. Carly is not only a is both Forrester's student and a budding animal advocate herself, and her brother is trying out for football like his Dad, even through he secretly hates it, and didn't sign up for the fall musical. And then there is a mad scientist (Robert Downey Jr.), trying to extract the secret of immortality from the shaggy hide of a 300-year-old dog he had kidnapped from a Tibetan monastery. And Carly even kidnaps it from Grant A Strictland, and brings him home, nad even trouble starts when the dog bites Douglas, that gets him starting acting like a dog too, and even looking exactly like him at times. The movie expects us to believe the dog is 300 years old, which would be impossible, since neither dogs or people live that long, all I can say we are in an era of movies being made out of sequels and remakes, and this is one to avoid at all costs.        
