

Apparently, this is a film that many women, who have read the book, can make enjoyable. 

Characters, including Anne A the Captain, display wooden acting. Poker-faces. Others speak at a clipped pace. The properness of the times allowed for personality, as shown well in "Pride A Prejudice" 1996 A 2006, but not here. Shyness, plainness, or slowness, may be portrayed likeably, with some personality. 

Both Anne A the Captain maintain wide-eyed, desperate, looks, constantly. Many of us do get nervous within romance; but we are compelled, by conversation, and activity, to interrupt our nervousness with personality. Thus, Anne's A the Captain's constant, wide-eyed, nervousness is un-natural. All of us at the age of Anne and the Captain, would have refined our nervousness to be responses of: shyness, thought, distance, hopefulness, approval, or alarm. 

You understand the quiet thoughts, because of the story, in spite of the confusing, paralyzed, looks; rather than because of them. You come to like Anne and the Captain toward the end, in spite of the wooden acting, because of the story's ending.

This film has pretty scenery; such as walks along the ocean. The costumes are often very unique and well done. There is beautiful singing in one scene, and even better, wonderful singing over the closing credits. 

Good period, romance films are so few, and so desired, that many women labor to imagine this film better than it is. I applaud their positive imaginations. However, they continued their fanciful, wishful, thoughts into rating this film. A reviewer, who liked the film, says she had read the book, and she cites a huge amount of important background from the book that is not shown in the film. A poor script for those who have not read the book. Awful directing made awful acting. 

I would like to see this good story re-made by a better Director. 

Well-made romance films are: "Pride A Prejudice", "Wives A Daughters", "North A South". Fairly made is "Under the Greenwood Tree"
