
This was probably the worst Royal Rumble in history. It featured three very bad matches, one decent one, a lousy Royal Rumble and an absolutely amazing match.

Brock Lesnar vs. Big Show, Royal Rumble Qualifier
This match was absolutely awful. The Big Show is a decent wrestler, but Brock Lesnar is absolutely terrible. A predictable ending made this match all the worse. This match is like watching a tumble weed.

The Dudley Boys (C) vs. William Regal and Lance Storm
This was a fairly decent match. Regal and Storm are very good wrestlers and in the tag team forum, the Dudleys can hold their own. Its sad though that this was the second best match on the card. Nice surprise ending though.

Torrie Wilson vs. Dawn Marie
If you take out the fact that Torrie Wilson and Dawn Marie are very nice to look at, this match is worthless. Unless you are really bored dont even bother watching this.

Triple H (C) vs. Scott Steiner
Triple H did all he could to save this one, but Steiner really cant wrestle anymore. I remember back in the early 90s where Scott Steiner was one of the best wrestlers in the game. Now he can hardly even move. This match really isnt worth seeing, yet its still better than some of the other matches on the card.

Kurt Angle (C) vs. Chris Benoit
There is no way to fairly describe this match. It was outstanding, phenomenal, amazing, incredible, brilliant. These two guys know how to wrestle and they put on a clinic. This match is easily one of the greatest wrestling matches of all time, and shows that you dont need steroids and steel chairs to put on an amazing match. Angle and Benoit are the two best wrestlers in the business and this match is proof.

2003 Royal Rumble Match
This match was decent alright. There werent any really good spots. It was fairly boring all the way through, and highly predictable. It got a little interesting when the final five were in, Rob Van Dam, Kane, Undertaker, Batista and Lesnar. Unfortunately, Lesnar is an awful wrestler and he looked pathetic out there with other talented wrestlers. A guy like Brock should never be in the Royal Rumble. It's sad when the worst wrestler by far in the match wins.


Its sad that an event with one of the greatest matches of all time gets only a 2 out of 5 rating, but theres nothing much to watch here other than Benoit/Angle. As I said, the Rumble was poor, the undercard was weak, and several of the matches were downright awful. The Benoit DVD has the Angle/Benoit match. Buy that. This isnt worth your money
