
Comedy comes in many forms--everything from crude slapstick to subtle satire--and in "Just Friends" there is an uneasy fusion of two classic movie types.  First, the movie wants to be a gross-out comedy.  The sight gags are plentiful, the physical comedy abundant and often cruel, and the dialogue absurdly unrealistic.  However, the movie also wants to be taken seriously as a typical romantic comedy--the variation where two people are meant to be together but various situations have kept them apart.  These elements have been combined successfully in the past--"There's Something About Mary" jumps right to mind.  Here, we get something far less successful.

First, the good news.  There are legitimate laughs to be had in "Just Friends" and that was a pleasant surprise.  If you don't care about character development and just want inane humor, you could do worse than this movie.  And if the sight of Ryan Reynolds in a fat suit sounds like the height of hilarity to you--check this out right away.

Sadly, it's the romantic comedy angle that fails to ignite.  There is nothing real at stake here to care about--and the blame for this falls squarely on Reynolds' character (I'll use the word character lightly here).  Reynolds may be one of our greatest sitcom actors working--the problem, however, is that he's not in sitcoms anymore.  He's making movies, unfortunately--and his hamming up to the camera always seem to take the place of a real character.  Here, he plays a celebrity insider--a successful, trendy record executive.  And yet, he's not believable as trendy, successful or professional.  His character vacillates between being the a villain and a hero, you never know or understand him--he just does whatever is necessary to set up the next gag.

It's too bad, really, because Amy Smart--as his love interest--IS playing a character.  I'm not usually a fan, but here she does nicely and the movie lets her down.  But it's Anna Faris that I'm going to single out for the most inspired performance.  The funniest bits to me revolve around her character--a shallow, insane pop star.  Sure, it's an easy target--but she throws herself into the role with such hilarious, over-the-top gusto that she is easily a cast standout.

Again, some humor--no emotion.  If you don't expect much from your comedy, you might just like this.  The fatal flaw for me is that I felt this film wanted me to care about the central relationship, but didn't do anything to make it REAL.
