
Instructions: rent Steven Seagall's latest action movie knuckle-fest "Exit Wounds". Insert in DVD player; watch first 15 minutes of movie, remove from DVD player. Return to video store. 


If you follow those instructions to the letter, you'll have fun with "Exit Wounds", which features one of the best opening sequences of any action movie in recent memory (Seagall attempts to thwart a brash, brazen assassination attempt). 

There's also a great scene---strike that, a Priceless Scene: hipster uber-villain (played convincingly by rapper DMX) and a henchman go on a shopping spree in an exotic car lot (ultimately settling on a Lamborghini Murcielago, paid for in cash out of a golf bag).

The scene is dope, def, and cool---it's all GOOD, Dawgz!----,in a New Jack City way. And that's a shame, really: it's so cool it just makes you grind your teeth as you begin, over the course of two hours, to realize that the rest of the movie just can't hold a candle to its opening minutes. 

An action movie should be exciting; after Seagall foils a neatly organized assassination attempt on the U.S. Vice President (a brilliant little sequence which merits one star on its own, and from which 95% of the trailer material was taken), "Exit Wounds" is not exciting. 

It's stale. It's rehashed. Honestly, were it not for DMX, the few riffs from the movie's excellent rap soundtrack, and the equipment, I would have thought I was watching an eighties Seagall flick. And that's surprising, given that the movie is helmed by "Romeo Must Die" director Andrzej Bartkowiak, who also did the cinematography for Speed, Lethal Weapon 4, and Devil's Advocate. 

The plot, what there is of it, deals with police corruption, and features a major twist near the end that takes the punch out of the story and doesn't make any sense---but by that time you've stopped caring. You've seen all of this before---done better.

Worst of all, Seagall is just too old to be a credible action hero; he's reached that wheezing, shortness of breath stage that afflicted Roger Moore back in "View to a Kill"---except Seagall doesn't have the acting chops that Moore was able to fall back on. Tom Arnold is thrown in for laughs, but the laughs are so feeble, and the jokes so stale, that you're laughing *at* Arnold and Seagall---not with them. 

Midway through "Exit Wounds" I was fighting to stay awake, and that's a shame, given that the first 15 minutes of the movie contained more sheer, hectic energy than any movie I've seen since "Face/Off". 

Rent the DVD for that opener if you dare, but if you stay any longer you'll see it's true: Old Action Heroes never die, they just fade away.

JS
