
As I write this review, it was 5 years ago this very day that the Walt Disney Co. released the classic "Fantasia" for the first time on DVD as a 60th Anniversary Special Edition.  But exactly 5 years later, you can no longer purchase a legitimate, new copy of it without paying at least double the original sale price, via such avenues as ebay.

As a Disney shareholder, I am one unhappy camper!!

This is the only reason I'm rating this classic 5-star film with only 2 stars.  The DVD is no longer legitimately available without forking over at least $40 or $50 for a new copy when the original list price was well under $30 (and that current price is only going to go up as times passes by).  I'm sure I'm not the only consumer that's really sick and tired of Disney's inane policy of releasing and then quickly yanking some of their DVD releases.

So what am I supposed to do now?  Wait another 5 to 10 years just to buy a legitimate copy of this DVD when Disney finally decides that the time is right to release it again?  I think not!  I can't wait that long, and my nieces and nephews will probably be too old to care at that point.  Or, should I instead pay an insane price now for an original copy (the profits of which WILL NOT go to Disney)?  Again, I don't think so!  I do not believe in getting ripped off, and refuse to support those that profit from it, regardless of supply/demand fundamentals.

If Disney insists on continuing their ridiculous and outdated practice of discontinuing some of their classic films on DVD after only 2 to 3 years of availability, it shouldn't surprise them at all that they're actually LOSING POTENTIAL SALES to counterfeit/pirated versions of the films that are being sold around the world (and from auction sites like ebay, too).  The way I see it, THEY ASKED FOR IT!!  By not making these classics legitimately available at all times, they are encouraging piracy.  It's that simple, and they deserve it!!  In this day and age, people are not going to wait a few years to get something they want NOW!!

I guess Disney is forcing me to think about buying a phony yet much cheaper DVD version of the original "Fantasia" just so I can show this classic to my nieces and nephews.  I'd much rather buy a legitimate copy that's reasonably priced, but I can't because Disney won't allow me to do so.  Oh well, it's their loss.  A classic film like "Fantasia", which came in at No. 58 on the American Film Institute's 1998 list of the 100 greatest American movies of all time, deserves a far better fate than this. 

Great job Disney!!  Way to go!
