
Harold Ramis's "The Ice Harvest" wallows in mid-market crime and holiday angst, but never really hits either the comic or noir heights to which it aspires.  All the ingredients are there, but ultimately the movie lacks spice.  In some movies, it works where all the characters move at a slow pace - "Nobody's Fool," for example.  But a dark comedy needs some pep, and "The Ice Harvest" doesn't have it.

A lot of that blame falls on the shoulders of John Cusack, one of my favorite actors.  He is at his best when he is riffing one of his intelligent-yet-soulful monologues, like in "High Fidelity" and "Say Anything."  Here, Cusack's job is to look morose and make the occasional comment - he may speak the fewest lines in any film he's made as a leading man, and that's a shame.  Billy Bob Thornton tries to liven up the movie in his scenes, but the menacing actor is off-screen for huge swaths of time and his absence is felt.  The same with the entertaining Oliver Platt, who plays a drunken buffoon as well as anyone - he's enjoyable on-screen, but when he's not there, we miss him.

The bar is set pretty high for holiday-as-setting-for-dysfunction movies. None of the exchanges rise to the visceral heights of the husband-wife spat of "The Ref," for example.  The movie is filled with small-time hoods who all seem hung-over or depressed rather than moved to exercise their savage wits.  Instead, we get an ominous film that in many ways tries to evoke "Fargo" or "A Simple Plan," but doesn't get anywhere close.  

There are a few laugh-out-loud moments that I won't spoil that keep the movie from being a complete waste of time.  But all in all, the movie is a downer, and when the winners are finally revealed at the end, it feels less like a triumph than it does a ho-hum conclusion.  

Throughout the movie, I kept wondering if this would have been a much more enjoyable movie where we got to see what was actually going on inside the minds of the characters . . . there seemed to be many scenes where the actors kept the best lines to themselves.  Petty crime can be highly enjoyable, but not in "The Ice Harvest." 
