
Long, tedious action adventure with repetitive dialog, bad plot holes, and generally boring characters is how to describe this little foray into following up the characters from Bad Boys.  

Marcus and Mike are out about, trying to find some ecstasy they've been alerted about.  They get into a bunch of fights, a bunch of car chases, they get in trouble, they argue with each other.  Then they go and they get into another fight, then they get in trouble, only this time they argue with each other first.  Then they argue with each other, then get into a fight, then get in trouble.  Then they get into trouble, argue with each other, and get into a fight.  The fights?  The same thing, over and over again.  Marcus is upset because he feels his life is in danger.  Mike is upset because he feels Marcus is bringing in negative energy.  They parody relationship therapy.

There's another thing happening.  It's this Cuban antagonist.  We don't really care about him, really.  He just kind of runs around, being Cuban and evil and all.  Then we get to see him get angry at people.  Then he becomes devious.  Then he becomes malicious and angry again.

So we watch, for over two hours, with just enough action to keep it moving.  Action that involves a certain camera movement, then a reverse shot, then the same camera movement, then the same reverse shot, then the same camera movement, then the same reverse shot...  The only truly interesting action scene occurred in that house with the Rastafarians, with that spinning camera thing.  That was pretty clever.  That's why this film got any stars at all from me.

Really, all I got from this film was the feeling that the filmmakers were trying to make the Bad Boys series, if there will ever be one (probably...) into the Lethal Weapon series.  I also got a lot of stuff about terrible psychoanalysis which was, to me, Michael Bay telling the world that male attraction to action adventure movies is not some weird psychoanalitical crazy mess, but just good natured fun.  Which is why the movie got a bit more of a higher rating from me.

Otherwise, wow, was that tedious.

--PolarisDi
