
To be fair, the legends of Herakles, as they were originally written, have little to do with this movie, but maybe that's for the best.  Having grown up on Superman, Batman and the Justice League, I have a hard time calling a person like Herakles a hero.  In the original legends, he was a warrior, but also a brute who eventually wound up killing his wife and children in a fit of rage.  He also wasn't, as far as I can tell, as strong as in this version.
Therefore, interpretations of Herakles are, I think, to be judged not on whether or not they deviate from the legend, but on where and why.
Disney has attempted to take Herakles (or Hercules, in the Roman) and make it a story about a true hero, and a perfect one at that.  There's nothing I like more than perfect heroes.  They inspire me.  Conceptually, I like the idea.
Instead of Herakles being the illegitimate son of Zeus and a mortal woman, he's conceived in love by Zeus and Hera and turned mortal by a potion.  Not bad.  As changes go, it works better than most.
Herc meets Meg at the beginning of his hero carreer and falls instantly in love with her and she with him (another deviation from the legend, and a very good improvement.)  Of course, because Hera is his mother in this version, she can't be Herc's enemy, so they make his opponent Hades; lord of the dead, which could be worse, as changes go.  I've never seen Hades as being all that bad of a guy, but that's how it goes.  Then there's the Hydra, which is, if anything, much larger and more powerful than it was originally, so that's good too.  Aside from this, however, I have to say I was disappointed with most of the changes.
The titans, to start with, were underplayed considerably.  It might have been premature to mention that they were Zeus' predecessors, but they could at least have given them powers similar to what they actually had, and a roughly-similar appearance.  Oceanus, for example, lashing out with blasts of water from his hands like a fire hose, or Cronos reversing the movements of his olympian enemies would have made for an excellent action sequence, particularly since Hercules didn't beat the titans alone in the original stories, nor does it make sense that he should in this one (grabbing a whirlwind?  Come ON now.)
I actually didn't mind Hades' used-car-salesman demeanor all that much, though I didn't see a reason why he should have flame-based powers when that's clearly Apollo's territory.  Further, I thought most of the Gods and Muses were given no credit at all in terms of their innately glorious nature.
Why is this the case?  I think Disney made the mistake, in this film, of not just trying to make the legends clean, but FUN as well, and there's nothing fun about war.  I'm not saying they couldn't have made the concept work.  In fact, I'm saying they could have made it work if they'd toned down the comedy and given the characters a bit of respect (Justice League style.)
Still, for what it's worth, this is one of the few movies left in the world that isn't afraid to dwell on the concept of a hero, and for that it's worth at least one viewing.  Rent it from your local video store, in my opinion, before you make your decision
