
Half Light (Craig Rosenberg, 2006)

I've been following some heated debate about this flick on movie boards, and it's brought a somewhat related (if tangentially) point into focus for me: why it is that movies like Darkness, the 2002 Spanish "thriller" with all the suspense of a Pee Wee Herman monologue, and Haute Tension, France's painfully bad 2005 attempt at horror, come over to America and fall flat. Well, I knew the answer, but really, you're all providing me with more evidence. You've never seen a good horror film in your life, have you? Because that's really the only way I can see justifying Darkness, Haute Tension, or Half Light as marginal, much less good, movies.

Demi Moore plays Rachel Carlson, an American author living in Scotland with her husband Brian (Henry Ian Cusick) and their son Thomas (the wonderfully-named Beans el-Balawi, recently in the TV adaptation of Beneath the Skin). Thomas suffers a household accident, which leads to Rachel and Brian splitting up. Rachel's friend Sharon (Coupling's Kate Isitt) finds Sharon a lovely, secluded place on the coast to hole up and try to write (and why is it that dead kids always lead to parents going off somewhere secluded, where they're bound to be tormented by guilt?). Rachel meets a number of fine locals, including Angus McCulloch (The Mists of Avalon's Hans Matheson), keeper of an even more secluded lighthouse not far from her new place, with whom she feels an instant attraction. Despite being free of the marriage bond, Rachel's not quite sure what to make of her handsome stranger...

...and neither are we. There's obviously supposed to be chemistry between these two characters, but it's never realized. It's probably off looking for the film's suspense, which Rosenberg reminds us we're supposed to be feeling by inserting a few scenes that tread the ground of every suspense movie clich\ufffd in the entire book. Once you've figured out the movie's big twists (yes, there's more than one, handled with all the delicacy afforded to, say, a road being repaved), which you will have done less than thirty minutes into the film, Rosenberg attempts to hit you with another big twist at the end. There's only one problem-- the movie's climactic scene is so befuddling that any attempt at inserting another plot twist that leads to the film's resolution does nothing but leave the viewer confused and unsatisfied. (Go look at the film boards in various places. There is one question that crops up over and over again. It relates to the utter inability of the climax to get its point across.)

It's not often that I say Darkness is better than another horror film. After all, Darkness was about the most pointless exercise in mediocrity possible. But if you have died and gone to Hell, and you have a choice of which of the two to watch on endless loop for the rest of eternity, Darkness should be a no-brainer. Yes, this one's that bad. 
