
I absolutely abhor this film. Want to know why? Because it labled 'Valley of the Dolls' and everything Jacqueline Susann ever wrote into 'great campy fun'. Now I don't know this for certain, but I don't think Jacqueline Susann wanted people to see her books as cheesy comedies. I think she wanted people to take her work seriously, and with this awfully made film, no one did. To others, the film might be so bad it's funny, but to devoted fans of the book it's just depressing. The movie was made in 1967, a year after the book was published and you can see that Jacqueline Susann was ahead of her time, because the film is poorly adapted and very censored. You know you have a problem when the book would receive an R rating if transferred onto the screen, but the movie is only rated PG. Besides the sex scenes, language, pill popping and other thematic elements that are left out, important details to the plot are also missing. Anne's hatred of Lawrenceville, Helen Lawson's screen time, Jennifer's complicated and somewhat absuive relationship with Tony, Allen and Gino Cooper, Henry's character development, Jennifer's relationship with the Senator (and the reason she committs suicide), the tragic ending, etc are all either missing or are shortened down. I don't care if the movie would have been almost three hours long, I think if they had stuck close enough to the book, then everything would have been fine. What a shame. And please don't mention the casting of actors. Save for Patty Duke, I thought everyone else did a horrible job. Some of the actors didn't even look the physical part (in the book Anne is actually a blonde, Helen Lawson has dark hair and Jennifer is curvy). The thing that really gets me though is why has this film never been remade? It's almost forty years later, and I think that this story definately deserves to be given justice and have a proper film adaptation. How about Kate Bosworth as Anne Welles, Scarlett Johansson as Jennifer North, Keira Knightly as Neely O'Hara, Joaquin Phoenix as Lyon Burke, and Liza Minnelli as Helen Lawson? Well I doubt that will ever happen, so in the meantime I recommend reading the book instead, and taking it seriously the way Jacqueline Susann had intended it to be
