
Yes, this is a supernatural psycological thriller... but far from a good one as far as I'm concerned.

I love these kinds of stories and I went to see this film with a lot of excitement... first because it has a interesting subject. Second because it has a great actor. I thought Denzel Washington would never associate himself with a bad script... but I was wrong.

But Denzel is always top notch. The rest isn't.

By now you already know the story. A good detective... a killer who happens to me a demon who happens to pass from person to person just by touch... the hunt... blah blah blah....

The script is idiot from page one.
The killer (as we will see as the story develops) travels by simple touch. So... excuse me... why doesn't the killer passes to a guard as he is going to be executed??? I mean... The guy is sooo powerful (and mobile) that I find it unbelievable that he gets to be executed in the first place.

But... ok... let's give the screenwriters a break.

Somewhere in the middle of the film, the demon enters a cat. Ok... so he can enter all kinds of animals. Fine.

Later on, the main character learns that in order to defeat the demon, he must kill his body in a place where there is nobody around. His brilliant idea: the forest. Full of animals.

Was I the only one who did not know the ending before it came????

Want more?

In an interesting twist, the protagonist kills an innocent man and later on... his own brother. And no one will believe the truth! How is he gonna get out of such a mess???

In the world of storytelling, there are only two ways of getting out of such an impossibly difficult situation: EITHER the screenwriter is brilliant and finds a believable way to save his character from the master mess built by the screenwriter himself - so he should know! (and then we get some sort of positive ending despite everything...) OR something deep inside the protagonist fails and he loses the battle against evil (despite the fact that there was a way out).

First line of solution: Die Hard, The Fugitive.
Second line of solution: S7ven, Chinatown.

We have none of that here.

Instead we have an evil god against a simple man (great starter for drama, right?) ...BUT the man gets weaker and weaker and weaker... and the demon gets stronger and stronger... to the point where we get the fact that the demon IS invincible long before he actually wins. And the great turnaround never comes.

Obviously we all hope he will be defeated... and that's why I kept myself seated all through the film... because if there was a way out... it would be brilliant. If the character dropped the towel... it would be thought provoking to say the least.

But no... the ending was easy and predictable. The screenwriter could not achieve one of the two possible lines of solutions. He wrote the first thing that came to his mind and hid himself under "The story ends bad" label. Without any depth.

Every villain has a weak point. It is up to the hero to explore it (may he loose or win). The only problem the hero faces here is a stupid lack of data. We have the data the moment the demon enters a cat. That's why we know how's gonna end.

What about the girl who helps Denzel? What about his nephew? Shouldn't they be part of the ending too? Don't come with the "this is an open-ending" kind of talk!

Do I sense a smell of desire for a sequel?
Quick! Gas masks!!!! Or... as A.C.Doyle would write: "Quick, Dr. Watson, the needle!"

Despite a stupid screenplay. Denzel is always great.
