
The first half hour of this 90 minute movie is actually quite good.  In fact, it is enthralling and has an interesting twist in that we don't know the real fact behind whether a young woman was violated by her boyfriend while unconscious.  According to the rumor (the rumor being a school experiment conducted by three roommates) she was, however, but we the audience don't know that.  However, the young woman is quick to think she has been raped.  Why there is no attempt at a physical exam, is unexplained, especially since the young woman involved has the reputation of being a professional virgin, however it turns out she isn't, so that's why the movie lasts longer than 30 minutes.  Fortunately, we're not dealing with unwanted pregnancies, either, so this doesn't turn into a soap opera.  However, we do have the dreamboat "hero" who dreams up the rumor about her being raped, and who exhibits unlikeable traits throughout. But that's true of the three leads - the roommates are all unlikeable, being insufferably full of themselves.  The last half of the film, 'dreamboat' takes the turn as lead character, and it's his story we're following, whereas his female roommate had the first half of the film, and basically it's her introduction to the audience of all the characters. Turns out 'dreamboat' and the young woman victim have a history together; which means issues they have to work out, and everyone else (in a way, the entire student body and its faculty and local law enforcement) is sucked into their story and mutual thirst for truth, though the characters don't have the same truth in mind - it's about vengeance; not justice.  And vengeance when it's not the comic book variety, isn't fun for an audience, it's just distasteful.  In other words, the man and woman should have been shut up together in a room so they could have worked it out for themselves, and left the rest of us alone.  So from a brilliant first half-hour - and btw how does the roommate penniless art student have the dollars for all that tech equipment? - we degenerate into a constantly weaving pattern of lies and deceptions that seems more pointless than clever.  There is merely too much story, so it becomes ridiculous.  A basically good premise is ruined.  If you are a fan of any of the stars involved, it might be worth viewing, if only once, but the film as a whole will probably leave a vile taste in your mouth.  Perhaps that's the ultimate message on a film about the dangers of spreading GOSSIP, or in this case deliberate lies, is that what goes around comes around, and also it will leave you feeling sick to your stomach.  I almost recommend you watch the first 30-45 min then quit midway, but anyone will watch all the way thru at least once, just to be sure where this is headed
