
I wasn't impressed by this film.   First of all, I could never "buy" that Saskia Reeves and Clive Owen were a brother and sister.  Nothing in their mannerisms or physical appearances would lead you to believe that they are related.  Nor does the backstory provided by the film give any credibility to their supposed brother-sister relationship.  They might as well have been unrelated lovers having a difficult relationship due to their massive immaturity and character problems, because that's how the relationship came across. 

Personally, outside of the button-pushing topic of incest, I found this movie dull and sometimes tawdry.  Clive Owen looked and acted like a low-grade truculent Lawrence Harvey, and Saskia Reeves was simply annoying (like her character, a weak, hopeless drifter from job to job and man to man.) The only actors who showed any real feeling were Alan Rickman as the husband, and Karl Johnson as Clive Owen's AIDS-stricken boss.  Karl Johnson has the best scene in the film:  he goes to a meeting with sores around his mouth and in a wheelchair, obviously suffering from AIDS, and this very fact intimidates the guy he's gone to meet.  The man keeps trying to subtly jerk his uneaten lunch away from any contact with the Karl Johnson character, and in the end Karl Johnson seizes the guy's sandwich and bites it, then offers the other guy a bite, pushing the sandwich into his face, basically...it's a scene that crackles with his anger A pain at being trapped by this illness, which is going to kill him, while this corrupt and self-important man is able to function normally.  

But aside from that wake-up call, the film dragged, and by the time Clive Owen's character was shouting in the climatic scene his realization that he's been used by his "sister" to inflate her sense of self-importance, I was long gone, with my head nodding.  

Much ado about nothing, frankly.  One star for the soundtrack; one star for the performances of Alan Rickman (what little he has to work with, he shines) and Karl Johnson.  Die-hard Clive Owen fans such as myself; eeeh, pass on this.       
