
I am a big fan of Woody Allen and I presume that I will eventually get around to seeing all of his movies.  Prior to viewing "What's New Pussycat?", I would have presumed that I would enjoy each and every movie.  However, "What's New Pussycat?" has shown me that even Woody Allen can make a disaster movie.

What is wrong with this movie is just about everything.  The acting can only do so much with an impossibly awful script and a director who seems to want to magnify the faults rather than cover them up.  We start with a man whose problem is that he must seduce every acttractive woman he sees.  Peter O'Toole won the rights to play this character and he is surrounded by beautiful women.  He proceeds to make it all seem so boringly ridiculous.  He calls all his femine friends "pussycat" which gets old after a while.  He constantly displays a bewildered expression coupled with a rather interested/disinterested approach toward his playmates.  He seeks the help of a sexually challenged psychiatrist played by Peter Sellers.  Sellers does his best with what little he has to work with.  He has the Dr. Strangelove accent down pretty good and he is constantly on the make but the humor that emerges is so weak as to be embarassing at times.  Woody Allen wrote the script, which is the most shocking disappointment of the whole picture.  I once heard a comedian remark that a good comic writer can give you 10 new jokes of which you can use 3.  With Woody Allen, the comedian said, you can use all 10.  In "What's New Pussycat?", I wish there HAD been at least three good jokes.  This overlong look into the problems that O'Toole's character suffers from eventually attempts to save itself with a sort of Bennie Hill-style slapstick.  I take that back; there's no justifiable reason to besmirch the good name of Bennie Hill by associating it with this turkey.  Anyway, the movie ends in a chateau with a sort of musical beds involving all of O'Toole's mistresses.  An incomprehensible brouhaha ensues and the revelers escape to a neighboring go-kart track.  (Presumeably all fashional French Chateaus have a conveniently adjacent go-kart track).  This enables the movie to sink so low that it boggles the mind.  After all, we have some top talent in Allen, Sellers and O'toole and we see them spontaneously go go-kart-riding off into the sunset (or the side of a building, or a mud puddle, or something meant to be funny).  I was glad to be done with the movie.

Woody Allen is a great talent.  Peter Sellers was a great talent.  Peter O'Toole was a great talent.  Watch them in their other productions but spare yourself the one movie that each one of them should not have made
