
Poor Lindsay Lohan - it seems between bad choices in films and even worse choices in real life, she may be about to destroy her career before it even takes off.  As an actress, she is falling into some very rough waters where she is expected to carry films on her shoulders before she has even had a chance to mature in her craft.  As a child actress, she was a natural fit for her spate of Disney appearances, with FREAKY FRIDAY her crowning achievment.  However, as a young adult, the pressure is much higher, as is the bar of success.  And movies like this are NOT helping.

But to be fair, one cannot place the blame on Ms. Lohan.  The fact is, she has already had a turn in a non-Disney role which paid off exquisitely.  MEAN GIRLS offered us the first glimpse of Lindsay in a post-Disney world.  The timing was on, the interaction with the cast was superb, and everything just fell into place.  But then again, that film also benefitted from a knockout script by a knockout writer (Tina Fey).  JUST MY LUCK has NONE of these things going for it.

Perhaps ironically, Ms. Lohan's latest vehicle is quite an unlucky choice for her.  We have a promising premise in the concept of a boy and girl with opposing luck.  Lohan is lucky, Chris Pine is not.  Inevitably through the courses of movie magic, we know that the two will end up trading places (much like Eddie Murphy and Dan Akroyd once did in . . . what was the name of that movie again?)  The only mystery for the viewer is whether this will occur through a wise old Asian or a wise old Gypsy. (Spoiler - it's the gypsy! OK, I know, I shouldn't be giving these things away!)  Like I said, we all know this is going to happen.  What we DIDN'T know was that it was going to take THIRTY-FIVE minutes to get there!  So, we kill one full third of the movie being bombarded with example after example of Lohan's good luck and Pine's bad luck.  By the time they make the switch, I had already lost interest and was planning my lunch.

After the predictable bout of sudden bad luck, Lohan learns that an ill-timed kiss with Mr. Pine was what caused the change of fortune.  Problem is, the kiss was at a masquerade party, and she doesn't know whom she kissed.  What follows is perhaps the film's only somewhat enjoyable sequence as Lohan tracks down and ambushes 20 strangers with sudden and embarassingly public kisses trying to get her luck back. 

Sadly, this brief bright spot ends too quickly, and it is back to the formula as Lohan and Pine meet and fall in love anyway, not knowing that they are the ones who caused each other's luck to change.  If predictable hook-ups make you happy, you might find some charm in this final third of the film - that is if you can overlook the sudden need for Lohan's best friend to become a song-writer in what was obviously a "what do we do with the final act?" tacked-on storyline with positively no set-up beforehand.

The problem with this film is that it comes across as very "slapped-together" (To borrow from Mad TV, it was "JUST MADE IN TEN DAYS).  Is the director to blame?  While Donald Petrie has a few hits to his name (MISS CONGENIALTY, GRUMPY OLD MEN, and MYSTIC PIZZA) he also has more than a few duds (THE ASSOCIATE, WELCOME TO MOOSEPORT, MY FAVORITE MARTIAN).  

Or perhaps it is the writing team?  To date, the two credited writers have yet to muster up a single true hit, and one gets the sense that a more competent writing team would have taken a better direction with the plot and have not wasted the obvious talent that Ms. Lohan does in fact possess.  Personally, I would have liked to have seen the producers take a risk and make Lohan a much more loathsome character to begin with than she is.  Her character comes off as too nice to hate, and yet too shallow to root for.  

Whoever is to blame, this is clearly a sub-par effort at best, and one I hope Lindsay (or her casting agent) will learn from.  With four movies coming down the pike, she still has a shot at transitioning into a much more serious career.  I like that she has taken smaller ensemble roles recently (such as PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION and BOBBY).  A very smart play on her part.  Let's hope she can steer clear of JUST MY LUCK roles for awhile
