
The Award winning documentary Freestyle, looks like something fresh, creative, and new from the exterior. I was psyched to purchase this DVD the minute I heard about it. 

What a let down!

First of all, How did Freestyle achieve all of the acclaim and all of these film festival awards, Secondly who picked it as a winner? Probably some cornball who isn't familiar with the culture or good off the dome MCing?
This documentary tries really hard to connect to the audience and present the validity of rhyming off the dome but falls completely flat. The film isn't balanced enough to a certain degree. What you basically have is nothing more than a bunch of tree huggin backpackers spitting nothing but junk and 10 syllable words off the top of their heads for a majority of the film. Don't get me wrong there are some credible scenes in Freestyle with Mos Def, Biggie, Black Thought, J.U.I.C.E, and the Last Poets....but not enough.  Freestyle tries to come off as some profound documentary but sheds very little light to the subject and the questions that many Hip-Hop heads have asked for years. Why wasn't the current trend of fake freestyles (writtens coming off as freestyles) addressed more? Why weren't more credible MC's exposed and quality underground MC's presented? Why is there a section entitled "written/freestyles", what kind of oxymoron is that? It makes no sense. Why is there a section on Freestyle DJing??? What???!!!? Isn't that called turntabalism??? It seems as if they're fishing for more topics that ultimately don't have much of a direct relation to rhyming off the top. Is there a freestyle graffiti section too???
Freestlye continuously fails and derails itself off track from the key subject, the art of freestyling. At times it tries to be a Hip Hop 101 DVD. Most of the people who will be purchasing the DVD are already familiar with Hip Hop's roots in the South Bronx. Where is the quality freestyling at? Ultimately, "Freestyle" is over-saturated with un-proven, extremely weak, amateur MC's who need to focus more on spitting quality off the dome freestyles.
They cover Supernatural's sorry a$$ for almost half of the entire DVD, which is very unfortunate. I admire his creativity, but he sounds terrible. It's no wonder why he can't get signed. He thinks his doo-doo doesn't stink, because he's studied the dictionary to help expand his vocabulary for freestyling, but yet he can't take the time to concentrate on getting out of the broom closet that he lives in.
I thought that this film could have benefited from more footage of proven vets who can truly freestyle such as Kool Keith, Tribe, Big Daddy Kane, KRS-1, Snoop, Kurrupt, Common, Safir, Likwit Crew, Redman, or anyone from Hieroglyphics. These aforementioned artists can "really" freestyle. That would have faired much better than watching these tofu eatin, incense burnin, soy milk drinkin, poetry night geeks struggle to put words together. The Eminem rap Olympics footage from 1997 would have been great too.
Ultimately, if you are somewhat/vaguely familiar with Hip-Hop culture or a new fan of the underground scene, then you will love Freestyle.
If you consider your self a long-time fan of Hip Hop culture and familiar with the topic of freestyle rhyming then you will be somewhat disappointed, just like I was.
 If you want a quality Hip Hop DVD purchase check out "The MC", "Scratch" or "Hip Hop Immortals" take my word for it. I'm rating this with 2.5 stars mainly for the rare footage of artists such as Kool Moe Dee, Bahamadia, Biggie Smalls,  The Roots, Craig G, and Kool Herc




