
Antonio Banderas plays a rich coffee magnate who is so stupid you can't believe he ever got wealthy when he's running around giving money freely to a woman (Angelina Jolie) who lied to him from the moment they met.  She didn't want him to be blinded by a pretty girl, so she sent a photo of the girl he was actually supposed to marry.  Well, we never get to see the pretty girl, because Jolie must have killed her too.  The only reason this woman is "hot" is because she'll take her clothes off and have sex with anybody (if you've seen Gia, you'll know what I mean).  Neither she or Banderas (who isn't a very good actor either and seems intent on overembellishing his accent) have any chemistry, and you wonder what he keeps forgiving her for when he catches up to her.  My guess?  The age old weakness most straight guys have for bad girls in bed, and all the sex in this movie gets old fast.  It's so stupid, because nobody has interludes like that unless they're shooting a blue movie.  The only blue here is the shade you will turn by the boredom with the weak plot.

You can see right through this silly waste of two hours you'll never get back:  this adaptation from Waltz into Darkness was remade especially for the purpose of exploiting two celebrities with highly sensual images and nothing more.  This movie is as bad as Showgirls and one star less than Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, because at least Beyond is badly funny in an entertaining way.  Not only is their relationship devoid of any true sense of love, but you also get this overwhelming desire to see creepy, unconvincing Billy (played horribly by Thomas Jane) get the girl.  Billy?  What a stupid name for a bad guy, but I guess it wouldn't make a difference even if his name was Ralph or Percival.

Early on in the movie, the so-called beauty Julia/Bonnie/I forget what else--wants to see a really bad theater group, and a friend of theirs comments on what a cheap mellowdrama is being presented.  My thoughts about Original Sin exactly.  The plot is stupid, and the dialogue is so bad it's over the top.  In the end, the movie makes absolutely no sense, and you wish you would get a payoff, but you don't.  The rat poison doesn't do its job, and neither does the executioner.  All I really am sure of is that, with all the rape scenes that Jolie's horrible character seems to enjoy and her portrayal of a woman who's asking for it constantly, that women should find this movie grossly offensive and degrading to our gender, and I'm not even a feminist!  As for studmuffin Banderas?  He really has no business in front of a camera because his acting scope is on par with the little boy who was in Problem Child with John Ritter.  However, he is a good director (Crazy in Alabama).  Heed my advice and avoid Original Sin; the two hours you waste on it will be unforgivable.    
