
The last time I saw the names "Adam Goldberg" and "Giovanni Ribisi" together, they were two American Soldiers who perished while trying to save a certain Private Ryan.

Goldberg co-wrote and directed this contemporary psychological drama that has all the ingredients for a great finale but gets left in the oven too long.  At times towards the end I was thinking it could have been something perhaps similar to "Memento" or something of that nature.  What this film gives you is a plethora of cross analyzing ideas meshed with real time parallels, that ultimately bogs down in a mosh of messy execution.  Some of the biggest points and profound themes that it spends so much time getting to in a bizarre and confusingly intricate way are so simplistic they leave you yawning.  Despite a stellar cast that besides Rabisi also features Jason Lee, Christina Ricci, Vince Vaughn, Haylie Duff and Elvis Costello, it gets to far out of the main points of what it is trying to convey.

Rabisi stars as Gray Evans, a movie star actor who is having marital trouble.  Gray starts thinking amid his days of working on the set, going through fan email, and getting bugged by people, that a fan is stalking him.  Relentless in his obsession of this belief, he starts obsessing about others around him.  Great ideas here but then the film basically spends too much time zigzagging around to all the different characters and locales.  We understand that Gray seems to have a connection with a film grad who is also a fan and is suspected by him at one time, of being the stalker, but by the time 100 minutes roles by it gets to the point of not caring.  The ideas are there, I just feel it was a bit over ambitious in the portrayal of it all.  The sections that are supposed to be psychological really come off more like psycho confusing, and the parts that are to be rewarding in tying up loose ends towards the films finish end up falling flat.

If you like Independent films, or want to try something different, by all means give it a try.  I don't see it as being something I would watch again, or have in my collection for killing time on a Sunday afternoon with
