
I love bad movies, so when i saw there was a documentary out all about ranking the worst movies i thought i'd give it a try.

Don't bother with this DVD.  Its 60 minutes long.  Now think about that fact. 50 movies, in 60 minutes. Some movies are barely shown for twenty seconds or they use a commercial that reveals little of whats bad in the movie.  SO problem number one they don't show enough of the movies.  Problem 2 is the bad designs of people booing and throwing popcorn at every movie they talk about.  The voice over was also a bit on the annoying side but thats probably the fault of the people who made this.

Its actually very ironic that this being about the worst films is actually a terrible film in itself. Another complaint i have is on what merrits on they ranking these films.  FOr a few, it seemed they put their not cause they were the worst movies made but because they were box office flops. I'm not saying Ishtar or Howard the duck were good movies but they shouldn't be placed on a list of the worst.  There are alot more terrible films, with acting thats unbelievably bad, mistakes galore, poor lighting, poor directing, poor writing,etc.  These were just bad movies that were flops.  I'm surprised they didn't throw Heaven's gate in here if they were doing flops.

So i don't get the criteria they were using.  A lot of really terrible movies were excluded too for some reason.  Manos is sadly missing.  Glen or Glenda is alot worse then Plan 9(despite plan 9 having the fame) yet plan 9 got a lower ranking.  

I guess the best thing i can say about this DVD is that they did get a list of some very bad movies.  Robot Monster and Santa Claus Conquers the Martians are amongst the worst movies you'll ever see.  According to the DVD, only Black Belt Jones is a movie so bad its funny but many (If not all) picked are so bad they are funny.  I didn't like how they included the movie Troll only because the sequel Troll 2 was so much worse(For heaven's sake, Troll 2 didn't even have trolls in it.  it had Goblins.  Thats bad!).

So, if you guys want to Watch a List of movies with barely any clips of the films that emphasize there baddness, this a film for you.  those of you who don't, heres a breif list of some of their movies.

Snow WHite and the 3 stooges
Greetings
The frozen Dead
They saved Hitler's brain
Black belt Jones
TNT Jackson
The thing with two heads
Howard the Duck
Billy the kid vs. Dracula
Bela Legosi meets a brooklyn Gorilla
Strange Creatures
Bloodsucking freaks
Leonard pt. 6
Attack of the crab monsters
Robot Monster
Santa Claus Conquers the martians
Troll
Trog
Xanadu
The Crippled Masters
I married a Monster from outer space
Teenage Zombie
Ghost and the invisible Bikini
Fat Spy
Plan 9 from outer space
Glen or Glenda
Bride of the monster
The mesa of Lost women
Voodoo Woman
Ishtar
Frankenstein Conquers the world
The Creeping Terror
The great Alligator
Hillbillys in a haunted House
The incredible melting man
Firebird 2015Ad
Dracula Vs. Frankenstein
Smokey and the Bandits Pt 3
The wild woman of Wongo
The ape
Galaxy of terror
The RObot vs. The Aztec Mummy
Snow WHite (German Version)
Creature from the HAunted sea
The swinging CHeerleaders
Trial of billy Jack
Killers from space
Spider baby
The 3 stooges in orbit
The sorceress
The crawling hand
JD's Revenge
Frankenstein meets the space monster
Killer shrews
Great white
The thing with two heads
Eegah!
The incridebly Strange creatures who stopped living and became mixed up zombies.

Certainly far from a definitive list of Worst movie
