
I'll get this out of the way: I never liked the 80's slasher films. Stuff like the Halloween series, Nightmare on Elm Street or Friday the 13th just never entertained me all that much. The idea of slow walking killers going after Olympic sprinters and still get caught felt really ridiculous to me. Of course the major draw was the death scenes: elaborate moments of viciousness. Flinging Jason into the future is of course going to elicit unintentional laughing but it's a good kind of laughing for some reason.

Jason is in the future in a facility on a planet, except he escapes(of course). Disposing of scientists, including The Fly and Scanners director David Cronenberg, he ends up getting cryogenically frozen, along with another scientist. Flash forward 400 years and a ship discovers them and founds out, ooh, a nice reward for Jason. As usual he comes to life and does what he does best: kill attractive looking hotties.

You don't go to these movies to expect well-written dialogue, character depth or anything, you come for the kills and to tell you the truth, they're slightly disappointing. Besides one kill, which answers the question of what happens when a frozen face hits a hard surface, the kills are kind of been there/done that. It's basically stab here, impale there, it seems kind of unimaginative. A few even happen off screen with the yelling off in the distance.

Characters are just there to be taken care of brutally and some are. However, Jason does what I'm starting to hate is kill off the very cute girls. One girl, wearing a top with a belly showing gets disposed off(off screen) and I'm like "damn guy, let one cute girl live for once!". Dialogue is of course stupid but there were some funny lines. A self-deprecating parody about the sex teens have in the film is referenced. "We love premarital sex!" is so classic, as well as "it's okay, he just wanted his machete back!". Granted they won't make an AFI list but they made me laugh. 

It's the kind of movie that you probably weren't supposed to like: it was ridiculous and dumb but boy did it seem fun. Just wish it was better
