
Jennifer Love Hewitt needs to fire her manager. I've yet to see her in a truly good role. Those terrible Know What You Did Last Summer movies, Garfield, Heartbreakers, If Only, and many others weren't exactly memorable roles. The Truth About Love doesn't help bump her in that direction either. Not that I was expecting Oscar-quality when I looked at the back of the box, seeing a picture of her in a leather corset, I wasn't going off of words to know that I was slightly interested in the movie. I've owned it for a few months now, and only recently got around to seeing it if only because my girlfriend watched it in the other room while my friend and I were in the other room playing games. She kept coming out every 5 minutes, and I could tell that she wasn't that interested. After giving in and watching it with her, I now wish we had all played Resident Evil 4 instead.

After what has to be one of the most annoying "sweet" introductions, we learn that a man has mailed a valentine letter to his friend's wife, Alice, supposedly by accident. Yeah, real smooth. When Alice gets it, she assumes it's from her husband, Sam, and sends him a hot letter as well. He gets it, thinking it's from another woman, and the problems ensue. He starts to hide the letter from her, and with that in mind, she tests his loyalty to her. She texts his phone anonymously with some of the dirtiest things Hewitt's done in recent memory. But as it turns out, Sam does have a mistress, and things get more complicated. You know what? The entire movie's boring up until 3/4 through. You're better off just reading the back of the box for the plot summary, then skipping to scene 9 or 10. And that's one of the cons I had with The Truth About Love- the time it takes to build up to what's an actually good conclusion with Sam's Anonymous admirer doesn't seem like it's worth it at first. But I'll admit, Alice's plan to bust Sam was a good one, though she gets a harsh slap of reality once everything's over.

The key problem with the movie is probably that it takes place in England, and Jennifer Love Hewitt's forced to take on one of the worst accents I've ever heard. There were a few times when I thought that they hired a voice actor to dub over her lines- it doesn't sound like her, and mouth movements often don't match lines. And that's funny considering the majority of the cast is from the UK. Then comes the unbelievable part about a guy cheating on a woman of Jennifer Love Hewitt's stature. There's no way in hell that could ever happen unless the guy is mentally challenged (ie- Carson Daly). The kicker is that Sam's mistress is a woman who looks to be in her 40s, and pales to Hewitt in any physical category. And how about that Archie guy? He's in 3 important scenes at most. All the other times we see him involve he and Sam's court room scenes which I have to say, are some of the most boring attempts at forced humor. In fact, the trial doesn't even have a connection to the central plot aside from showing that Sam and Archie are friends and partners. Alice's friend is also a complete hussy, and seems like she didn't make the cut of being on Sex and the City. Finally, guys, I'm sorry to tell you this, but there are no scenes of nudity here aside from when Alice visits an adult movie store. Though the best we get from Hewitt is her in a corset, it's only for a few collective seconds. The love scene is kind of laughable too when she's wearing that ridiculous wig. Even right now, I still have mixed feelings about the movie. Just when something completely stupid happens, something decent does right after it.

This is some of the worst picture quality I've seen in a while. The transfer looks terrible. Even watching it on my HD Monitor, there were tons of errors. Grain, artifacts, and something new. I almost want to call it rippling- many scenes are out of alignment, and we get a watery effect that takes over the entire picture. I can't explain it in full detail, but more or less, people's faces and bodies would look all twisted every couple of seconds. It stays for most of the first fifth of the movie, then is only occasional after that. But then there's blocking and many more problems that make up for it. You'd think with a direct to dvd release, they could at least get something right. The audio fares a little better, but everything's weird once again. While you can hear the audio just fine, it's almost too loud at times, and incredibly, all the actors' lines look like they're dubbed- especially Jennifer's. This becomes very obvious halfway through the movie when Archie yells at Sam. The camera is behind Archie so we can see the back of his head talking to Sam, but when he yells, his mouth doesn't open.

Special features? None. Though the box tries to claim that a chapter selection, previews, spanish subtitles, close captioning and Dolby 5.1 are special features, we all know better than to fall for that. At the very least I expected some behind the scenes interviews or something with everyone going on about how great it was to work on a movie bound for failure.

Is there any reason to buy The Truth About Love? Not at all. I guess that phrase "low expectations lead to better results" does ring true for it. I just wish the director, writers and actors had put a little more effort into everything. But you know the funny thing? I'll bet twenty bucks that this thing gets remade in a year or two with A-list actors (sorry Jennifer), and finds success after they rewrite all the boring parts. Even as a date movie, there are many better ones out there. Might I suggest Shaun of the Dead
