
I have to say I had no expectations going into this movie, I watched it with an open mind, ready for anything. What I got was movie that not only managed to make me want to go to Wales, but also made me want to wail for hours because It was a waste of time. I am just confused about the whole thing really, the plot the characters the ending.....I see other reviews on here about how "creepy" it was, and I just didn't feel that. What I felt was an extreme hatred of the main woman played by Maria Bello (who I have never thought had a face or talent for acting) What they tried to do was take some made up legend of an otherworldly plane, where the dead go, and we can get the dead back if we give something living. The daughter is whisked away like Penelope taken to Hades but with much less interesting results. The mother and father, now have to take care of a displaced spirit child, her haunted freaky father, and a bunch of sheep that just need to be shorn and turned into a nice Ikea blanket for me.  Are we supposed to care for this mother who hits her daughter, goes out and parties to the extreme enough to where the father abandons his family to go live amongst the obviously na\ufffdve and gullible local folks? (Who worships in an abattoir? C'mon people) none of these folds deserved children, much less a ghost one. So when the mother realizes that she sucks, and decides to make the ultimate sacrifice to get her daughter out of underworld foster care I didn't really care, I was thinking the girl was much better off. I was also bothered by the girls attempted suicide and the fact that the father had no idea about it, what mother is so selfish that she keeps something so horrible from the father, because her daughter asked her too? Um, maybe what's wrong in this family is that No one communicates!!!!! Oh, wait, they all flipping know Morse code so that's enough?!?! There aren't any genuine scares, and sheep with glowing eyes aren't scary unless you happen to like eating lamb chops and feel guilty about it. The ending , both of them, didn't leave a good feeling or bad or even tie things all together, it felt rushed. I don't understand Hollywood's obsession right now with creepy children, it's an echo of the days of "the bad seed" and "the omen" but not homage, more like terrible copycats with no "oomph". So see this movie If you like Sean Bean, he is the only good thing about it, other than that see it to cheer when Maria Bello hurls herself off a cliff.
