
Here we go again. Another of my favorite shows starts repeating itself and treating the fans like idiots. The differences between season 3 and this drivel are STAGGERING. 

They must have swapped out writers or something. How else do you explain the camera lingering on Lana Lang's MANY revealing showers for no reason? Let me say this as clearly as I can: Showing skin on Smallville doesn't work!! 

Good Points: Michael Rosenbaum is still the best Lex Luthor ever put on film. Sarah Carter as Alicia Baker is back! She's Clark Kent's interim girlfriend, like a psycho Lori Lemaris (who cares if she tried to slice n' dice Lana last season and it makes NO sense for Clark to be within 50 miles of her? I don't). There are two new supporting characters this time, Lois and, erm...Jason. I weep for Jensen Ackles. He's way too good of an actor to be put through this horrible role. The way he takes a dumbly-inserted character like Lana's New Boyfriend and immediately makes him likable deserves him an emmy or something. Erica Durance as Lois: EASILY the worst actress, and her lines don't help. I don't really mind, because Erica LOOKS like Lois, even if her snarky remarks reach a cheese grater-level annoyance. I think Lois would work better if she just STAYED in Metropolis and we saw her only through Chloe. But I guess it's cheaper to keep her on the regular set. Personally I think it's a conspiracy to give Allison Mack less screen time. Why doesn't she get a revealing shower? Bah.

****THINGS THAT MAKE MY BRAIN HURT:****
1.)  Clark (somehow) becomes a quarterback for the football team. You get to see it for five episodes. What drama. Ok, this is just stupid. He's CHEATING, OK?? It's CHEATING. He can't just switch off his powers when he wants to. Clark's football career also results in the episode "Recruit", which is hazardous to your health.
2.)  Turns out Lana's part-witch. I thought she was Native American? Nah, just French. And a CRINGE-worthy villain.
3.)  PRODUCER: "Hey, doesn't this show remind you of Charmed?? WRITER: "Not really, but great idea!! Lets dress Lois, Lana, and Chloe is corsets and make them shoot purplish energy balls from their fingers!"
4.)  If the writers weren't going to keep Jason around for more than one season, why put him in the credits?? Durr. 
5.)  Jane Seymour shows up in for the most pointless guest appearance in TV history. She does nothing for a few episodes then cashes her paycheck. Bye.
6.)  'Jynx', 'Spell', 'Recruit', 'Sacred', 'Spirit' and 'Ageless'. Oh right, and 'Forever'. ALL LAME! They make me ashamed to watch the show! Some are so awful I don't think I've ever watched them more than once. That's like HALF the dvd set. Bah.

Oooohh, I wonder if Clark and Lana are gonna get together this season! Just they like get together and break up EVERY season! I'm on pins and needles!

The ONLY things keeping this from 1 star are the excellent first couple of episodes. Oh yeah, Hey writers, stop ripping off other successful shows and movies! Morons
