
First off, let me explain why I purchased the AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS DVD in the first place, sight unseen.  One, I was trying to collect as many notable films of the 1950's as I could on DVD, to add to my personal library.  Two, it was the winner of the 1956 Best Picture Oscar (how bad could it be, right?).  And third, it was on sale at my local wholesaler.  So I figured, what the hey, I'll take a chance.

Talk about a COLOSSAL disappointment.  I'm a huge movie buff.  I'm only 32 years old, but I love all sorts of films and genres from different periods and countries.  I love old black A white and silent films, and I don't shy away from foreign films either.  I'm also a huge fan of Warner Brothers' 2-Disc Special Edition DVDs.  I try to keep an open mind about all the films I see, but I just can't come up with any convincing arguments to either buy or watch this film/DVD.

To start, there is NO GOOD REASON why this film should be 3 hours long.  It could have very easily been edited down to 2, if not 90 minutes.  There is almost no script to speak of, and what little there is consists of trite exchanges and banter with barely 2 memorable lines of dialogue.  There are endless shots of open seas or country, followed by about 30 seconds of dialogue, followed by EVEN MORE endless footage of different locales.  There is no real drama or comedy going on to drive the film, and the pacing is absolutely DREADFUL... I found myself hitting the "fast-foward" button on my remote on more than a few occasions, simply because I knew I wasn't missing any dialogue and the establishing shots would go on for 1 or 2 minutes STRAIGHT!

Secondly, the entire cast is virtually wasted.  David Niven is always a delight to watch, but is never given a chance to make Fogg truly shine.  He has one demeanor that he holds throughout:  stiff and mannered, with little or no variation.  Cantinflas, who supposedly was one of the highest paid comedians in the world at the time 80 DAYS was produced, gives us little reason to believe how or why he was such a sensation (other than doing his own stunt work).  He's mildly amusing at best, and his accent is so thick and mumbled that I had to rewind and replay some scenes with the "subtitle" button on.  As for the "noted" cameos... again, the actors/comedians are given little to do and barely play to their strengths and familiarity.  The only cameo actor who stuck out as having any real performance or impact was the great John Carradine (can't miss that voice!).

It's hard to believe it took THREE different writers to come up with such a frustratingly bland, lifeless and unfunny script (not to mention headscratchingly illogical... when Cantinflas rescues the Shirley MacLaine Princess character, wouldn't she fall in love with HIM, her actual rescuer, rather than the cool and distant Fogg, who only ordered the rescue?  Talk about a missed opportunity for some genuine comedy!).

Although this film obviously has some fans, I wonder if it's only because of some overriding nostalgia factor, whether it was seeing it for the first time back in 1956 or on TV as a child.  Other than that, I can't understand how anyone could seriously recommend this film.  Yes, it's beautifully photographed, and the costumes are great, but THAT'S IT.  I can't believe that 80 DAYS won the Best Picture Oscar of 1956, a year that also gave us GIANT, THE TEN COMMANDMENTS, THE KING AND I, THE SEARCHERS... hell, even FORBIDDEN PLANET or INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS should have won before this overblown moving postcard.

I'm sorry to say that I probably won't bother watching this film again and will most likely end up reselling my DVD copy (if anyone will take it!).  Certainly my most disappointing DVD purchase EVER.  Don't say you weren't warned!
