
"The Most Anticipated Book in the History of Poker!" exclaims a blurb on the cover.  Well, if so, I can tell you that a lot of people have been, or are going to be, VERY disappointed.  Comparing the classic Super/System from 1978 with this book is, to paraphrase Mark Twain, like comparing lightning to the lightning bug.

This book is more of a tribute to Doyle Brunson than it is "A Course in Power Poker."  Johnny Chan writes a fairly vacuous Preface in which he lauds Brunson, but doesn't say anything about how to play.  Then we have Brunson's Introduction in which he tells us mostly about the contributors to the first Super/System.  Next there is an autobiographical sketch by Brunson entitled, "My Story."  (If you want a book that gives the real flavor of Brunson's "story," get a copy of According to Doyle (1984).  It contains 47 chapters in which Brunson recalls his early days and life on the road.)

Following "My Story" is a short history of Texas Hold'em by Crandell Addington which isn't much, and then there is the first chapter that could actually be considered part of a course in power poker.  This would be 43 tips from Mike Caro cribbed from his lectures and books.  However the tips are hardly "exclusive" for SuperSystem2 as claimed.  Beginning with Caro's cute but now very familiar, "In the beginning, everything was even money," most or all of the tips have been recycled.  For example, Tip #18, page 146, "WHEN A FREQUENT BETTOR CHECKS TO YOU...don't bluff" is just about the same as Tip #10 "Seldom bluff if frequent bluffers have checked into you" found on page 137 in Caro's Fundamental Secrets of Winning Poker (1996).  In fact Caro even recycles his "exclusive" tips in this very book.  Tip #31 says that PLAYERS STARING AWAY...are almost always more dangerous than players staring at you," while Tip #40 says in part that "OPPONENTS ARE MORE LIKELY TO BET OR RAISE IF THEY ARE: ...(3) staring away."

Jennifer Harman's chapter on limit hold'em is so ordinary that it's remedial.  There's not even a hint of anything new.  There are a number of books on the market that cover the same ground much more thoroughly.  I especially recommend Small Stakes Hold'em: Winning Big with Expert Play (2004) by Ed Miller, David Sklansky and Mason Malmuth or anything by Sklansky.  Also her insistence on referring to hands backwards, "6-7" (e.g., on p. 252) instead of "76" is annoying and contrary to a well-established convention.

And the caricatures by Russ Braun!  They are so bland and flattering that each may have passed prior inspection by the subject's mother.  Comparing these to the witty and sharp work by Stan Hunt in the original is like comparing a cliche to something alive and vital.  Brunson doesn't even look like himself.  Here he's just a generic, smiling, dough boy kind of guy--except in the small, clever, lifelike drawing gracing page 7 which WAS drawn by Stan Hunt, copied from the first book.

Good are the chapters on Omaha and Stud Eight-or-Better.  However, although Brunson has Bobby Baldwin billed as his author of the Omaha Eight-or-Better chapter, actually it was written (as acknowledged) by Mark Gregorich.  He does a good job of introducing the game and giving some of the strategies, and I'm sure he is a fine player, but what about Bobby Baldwin?  Well, as CEO of Mirage Corporation and President of the Bellagio Hotel and Casino, Bobby is far, far too busy to write the chapter himself.  So he just lent his name and his supervision.  Can you spell R-I-P-O-F-F?

Perhaps the most embarrassing part of the book is Doyle's chapter on no limit hold'em.  It is little more than a reprise of the same chapter in the first book published 28 years ago.

Also recycled is the section on "Colorful Names of Various Hold'em Hands" on pages 628 and 629.  The dated references to Raquel Welch ("38") and Broderick Crawford ("10-4") seem more than a little out of touch.  Indeed, this book is nostalgic tribute to Brunson and the great success he and the original book achieved.  And that is a shame, because this book is billed as an exciting event in the history of the publication of books on poker when in fact it is something hastily put together to flatter Brunson and, hopefully, the pocketbook of those involved.

One final thing: there is a Glossary, suitable for beginners, which is okay as it defines such things a "Deuce," "Flush," "Four of a Kind," etc., but seems a little basic for "A Course in Power Poker."  Worse though is this definition of a "Cold Deck": "A term often used to describe the deck by players who feel they're not getting enough playable or winning hands."  Players may indeed remark that "the deck is cold," but the origin of the term comes from the fact that a stacked deck used by cheaters that is switched into the game tends to be "cold" to the touch since it has not been handled since it was stacked.

Bottom line: pass
