
and I suspect this is what has happened to James Lee Burke.  The Dave Robicheaux series has been floundering sadly for several books now - and that is tragic, considering the promise of the early books, which peaked in the hauntingly beautiful In The Electric Mist With Confederate Dead.

I grew up in southern Louisiana, and Burke captures a culture that many people have no experience of.  But the series is becoming repetitive and stale, culminating in this book, which is just awful.  Burke's characters, with the exception of the always funny and touching Cletus Purcell, are wearing thin and becoming less and less sympathetic.  Dave Robicheaux becomes more priceless and preachy in each novel.  His anti-alcohol tirades would make any Prohibition era preacher proud.

Burke has fallen into a trap of using the same imagery and phrasing again and again, and it makes the reader wonder if he isn't cutting and pasting entire paragraphs repeatedly.  If I read one more time in a Burke book that Leadbelly strung his twelve stringed guitar in octaves, I will be sick (hey, Mr. Burke?  Twelve stringed guitars have always been strung that way, Leadbelly didn't invent that tuning, okay?)  If I read the word "phallus" in a sex scene in one of Burke's books one more time, I think I will just give up.  The phrases are getting old - really old.  The preaching about political corruption and alcohol got old many books ago.

One thing to be thankful about in this abysmal wreckage of what was once a great series - Bootsie, Dave Robicheaux's wife, is dead, though that doesn't keep her out of the story.  But at least the reader is spared another element that has been repeated to death - the moment in every book with Bootsie in it where she gets up in the night, angry with Dave, and goes to sleep on the couch.  I've had bets with other readers as to what page Bootsie will do this inevitable stunt (which then opens up the opportunity for another sex scene with the "phallus" when they kiss and make up) in each Burke novel where she is a character.  Thankfully, also, Alafair, Dave's adopted daughter, is far away at college, and we are spared her teenaged brattiness which became tedious in the earlier books and yet another repetition of the story of how Dave came to adopt her, which is included in every book since the introduction of the Alafair character.

It's time for Mr. Burke to let the series go.  It's a travesty of its former self.  Reading this book is like visiting a relative who has lost their mind to dementia - you see a hollow, nearly unrecognizable shell of a formerly vital and beloved person.  It's painful
