
McKnight's concerns about communities' dependency on professional assistance are legitimate, but disturbingly overstated in this book.   

In the end I felt McKnight's trashing of the already well-trodden government provision of social services may not be altogether helpful to distressed communities.  He sidesteps concerns of capital mobility and exploitation and the pernicious effects wrought by years of discrimination.  Any debate over when and where and how social programs can be effective is cast aside as well, since in McKnight's picture, social programs and the professional service providers are, in fact, the vilains and culprits for most of what ails society.  

One of the damaging fallacies that seems to be perpetuated in this book is that service professionals are not able to be both professional and caring - the two are deemed mutually incompatible.  Mcknights views resonate with employers' caring rhetoric - conveniently invoked every time a healthcare worker tries to claim she does care about patients but is still entitled to a living wage or, perhaps, health insurance.   

What is further implied is that communities will readily and ably take up the reign of providing for themselves and their members when denied more institutionalized professional services.  It seems implied that communities had no problems before the social programs to solve them came into being.  In this, I think I see McKnight is invokeing an idealized notion of an society at an earlier time; maybe his argument would have seemed more reasoble in a time when families were less geographically mobile and may have constituted an economic unit, when the elderly lived shorter lives and were less numerous themselves with more children to care for them, and the local economic activities were more functionally interdependent.  

But McKnight's model for today's cure doesn't seem to fit today's conditions.  On the other hand, McKnights solutions may be the only ones available in a society where budget cuts and elimination of social services seem the prevailing trend.
