
John Katzenbach is an accomplished author and I had previously read and enjoyed another of his novels (The Analyst), so I was surprised at how bad The Shadow Man was.  The premise of the plot is that four very old Jewish people, survivors of the Holecaust, believe they have seen the "Shadow Man".  The Shadow Man was a Jew who joined forces with the Nazis to find Jews that were hiding to avoid certain doom in concentration camps.  These four old people feared the Shadow Man more than anything.  When one of them is killed, a retired police detective named Simon Winter looks into who the Shadow Man is.  Meanwhile, the Miami police are also investigating the death of the elderly Jewish woman and have young gangster as a suspect.

Eventually, Winter and the police and the District Attourney join to hunt the Shadow Man, a man of pure evil.  As the book villian, it was hard to fear a villian who was a killer 50 years ago but was now in his 70s.  Also, this book barely touches on WWII, yet purports at times to be a novel about WWII.  I've read a lot of great WWII novels, and this book would have been great if it had been set in the 60s.  But setting it present day with senior citizens and the main characters wasn't too exciting.  It wasn't exciting primarily because I wondered where had the Shadow Man been all these years?  Why was he starting to kill now?  The Shadow Man had no motivation to kill.

Finally, I realized I didn't like this book when I was skipping paragraphs at a time during the last 20 pages.  The entire book was like this with each character prone to long rambling inner thoughts that really added nothing to the story.  If you take away the WWII angle, this novel is bad.  The WWII angle adds some excitement, but there are probably thousands of books out there that relate the horror of WWII better than this one does.

The review from Publishers Weekly printed above summarizes my thoughts and deserves to be repeated..."Katzenbach (Just Cause) has some good Holocaust and WWII vignettes and pretty good cop-talk here, but the book is burdened by flat characterization, a slow pace, an odd, unsatisfying ending and a serious need for editing.
