
To anyone who has or is planning on reading this book, consider this. This book has a lot of words which feel good and can make anyone's guilty conscience ease in thinking that "your own will is god's own will." (quoted from Walsh's books) If you will it, then God wills it because he loves you and wants you to live in freedom, right? Will is a precursor to action. If there is no such this an a 'right' or 'wrong' will, then in essence there is really no such thing as a 'right' or 'wrong' action. If someone else's actions hurt you, you feel that action is wrong. But the person who hurt you certainly had his feelings for acting that way, right? It was his will, therefore he was justified and right and god's right there to back him up. The victim is suffering. Where is his god when he needs him? Was the victim correct in believing the action wrong? Was the perpetrator correct in believing his action was right? In this book, god says that WE have the authority to decide what is right or wrong. The action is both right and wrong, right? Wrong. 
This is when you may want to take a look at the Bible. The Bible portrays God as a loving yet HOLY God. Holy is defined as exalted or worthy of complete devotion as one perfect in goodness and righteousness. He loves us but sees a REAL AND DISTINCT right and wrong as clear as day where sometimes it appears to be a tangled mass to our limited senses. He created us and gave us a conscience which can in most cases discern a right and wrong in a situation. He gave us a free will which allows us to then choose that right or wrong. Are we always going to do the right thing? No, and He knows that. When we do wrong thing, it is unhealthy at best to believe that doing wrong is the right thing to do because we desire it. We're NOT God. We do wrong all the time and God simply wants us to acknowledge this. He wants us to exercise our FREEWILL to do right according to our conscience and what's told in His book. But he knows that even still we will do wrong when attempting in good faith to do right. And that is why in a generous act of sacrificing Love He sent His Son Jesus Christ to SHOW us the way, sacrifice Himself on the cross for our wrongs, and be there still today to forgive our wrongs when we believe in Him and in the truly amazing thing He did for us. It's a beautiful thing! 
I urge you to believe that the Holy Bible is not a lie and Jesus Christ simply did the things the book said He did and is the person He claimed to be. 11 disciples took everything they said and wrote to their grave and never recanted even after much persecution. Wow! 
I've been a believer in Christ for almost seven years and He's continued to worked wonders in my life. I would have been a fan of these books if God had not put me on His path. 
In case you're wondering, I gave this book 2 stars because it has reinforced my faith in Christ by giving a glaring example of what God is not. 
If you've read through all of this, thank you. I encourage you to write me. God bless!

