
The book isn't good at all. I'm sorry. I loved I am Legend and seeing the list of books this guy has written which had been developed into classic horror movies (Hell House included) I was really excited to read this. I have heard many complaints about the book from calling it "soft porn" to "sick soft porn" and then even being offended by the sacrilege present in the tale. Sacrilege in a book called...Hell House is probably something you need to come to terms with before picking it up. Attacking the author because of the content is really something that is not necessary. I doubt these were Mathis' "sexual fantasies" in the book but more likely his idea of melding something pleasurable together with something terrifying. It is an effective way to convey horror to a reader. Similar to enacting horrible violence on children, or worse, babies in cinema (try watching the Hills Have Eyes without being on the edge of your seat while the villains in the movie dangle the fate of an infant in your face). Mathis should not be condemned for content.

Here is what he did right. He took the idea of a haunted house and brought it into the world of science. Much like I am Legend used science to define its vampires, Hell House uses science to define hauntings and it is very well researched and believable within the framework of the story.

The bad parts may be more numerous. His characterization is horrid. There are four characters really and their personalities do not define them. You will remember Barrett by his limp, Fishcer by his fear, Florence by her religious beliefs, and Edith...well because there is no one else. They are paper thin and have no real motivations. The pacing seems poor too. A lot of moments are left on revelations in the point of view characters mind which that character has not fully processed because the chapter ends before they can relay it and all of its profound meaning to you, the reader. As a matter of fact the revelations themselves, when all is said and done, are really pretty dull. There is also a habit characters have, when going into great lengths of exposition that goes on for pages, to cup their hands around a coffee cup. It seems too much like a commercial for me! Anyway, the book hardly slows down for characterization or details and we get very few vivid descriptions in the book. Sometimes I wanted to know what things looked like, I wanted imagery not just exposition for pages. What was it about the atmosphere that, say Fischer found so scary? We needed the scenes to be better developed. By the end I was so tired of lines like:

"God do you know what this means?"
"What?"
"I can't tell you now but it's freakin' awesome!"

That exchange is not in the book but you will find many similar moments throughout. Just tell us already! The fear should come through our attachment to the characters not the mystery of the house because the mystery of the house is kind of weak. This book is not worth it, unfortunately. I hate to say it because I Am Legend is really good (though it did suffer from some of the same things I pointed out above, though on a smaller level). It's the classic "show don't tell" advice
