
The very first thing you read in this book is a mistake.  The Prologue begins with a photo of German POWs at the end of WWI.  The photo caption states that the German Army at the end of WWI was "unbroken" and implies that Germany capitulated because of a loss of will on the part of its political leadership.  This is doubly misleading.  The German Army was soundly defeated on Western Front in 1918 and then began to disintegrate.  In 1918, Germany was essentially a military dictatorship run by Ludendorff and Hindenberg.  The political leaders who lost will were the German High Command.  Defeat on the battlefield and despair on the part of senior commanders hardly meets the description of an unbroken army.  Keegan is essentially repeating the pernicious "stab in the back" myth used by the German military and right wing propagandists to undermine the Weimar republic.  Its astonishing to see this published decades later by someone who is supposed to be an expert on such matters.  
This type of error recurs throughout this book.  My favorite relatively minor error is Keegan moving the Ploesti oilfields, a major strategic resource, from Romania to Hungary.  See prior reader reviews for documentation of a number of factual errors of varying magnitude.  Just as important and in some cases even more important are Keegan's failures to discuss crucial aspects of WWII.  He makes little effort, for example, to discuss the origins of the war.  Indeed, his paragraphs on this topic suggest that he finds it too confusing to discuss.  Leaving aside his shirking of his obligation to discuss this crucial topic, there are excellent overviews of 20s and 30s that are good guides to this admittedly formidable topic.  Instead of an effort to discuss the origins of the war, we get a superficial and somewhat misleading discussion of how industrialization transformed military technology and organization.  Instead of a discussion of the sad history of the Weimar Republic, crucial for understanding the ascent of the Nazis, we get another misleading discussion of the Freikorps phenomenon.  Among other significant omissions are his failure to grapple with the possible strategic significance of the Allied bombing campaign against Germany, a issue analyzed insightfully by Richard Overy in 2 of his excellent books.  Keegan's discussion of the Holocaust in both inadequate and implicitly misleading.  Partly because he doesn't discuss the origins of the war and the role played by Nazi ideology in starting the war he fails to show that in crucial respects the Holocaust was the point of German aggression.  The Nazis went to war not just to overturn the Versailles settlement or even to conquer Eastern Europe, but to impose their bizarre notions of racial conflict on the rest of Europe.  Without this background, its impossible to understand the outbreak and the specific nature of WWII.  Among other things, Nazi racism prevented them from rationally exploiting the resources of the western Soviet Union, a factor in their eventual defeat.  As pointed out by other reviewers, Keegan devotes a disproportionate amount of the book to activities of the Western allies when the Eastern front was really the crucial theatre.  
To be fair to Keegan, writing a concise 1 volume book like this is very difficult.  The best 1 volume work on WWII is Gerhard Weinberg's book, which is about 1000 pages of text in a fairly small font.  Some of the individual sections of this book are quite good and Keegan has a nice, sometimes actually elegant, writing style.  None of these positive features, however, can overcome his neglect of basic features of WWII and the lack of attention to basic facts.  This is not just error, this is actual negligence.  
