
The number of books written in our society is huge and getting huger. Everyone recognizes that far more books are being written and published than can be read. Why are people so anxious to be authors in such a market? One reason, apparently embraced by the Goldstones, is that it is so EASY to write a book! All you have to do is write down some reminiscences of your experiences. They don't have to be particularly interesting experiences. You don't have to do any research into your subject. If you describe what all the people you encounter are wearing, if you go into details of how you found a babysitter for each trip you took, if you quote verbatim phone calls from relatives and shop keepers (even if they are not interesting or witty), and if you describe the hotel rooms you stayed in, you can finish the book in a couple of weekends! And readers can finish the book in a couple of hours with little harm done.

The book does accurately represent the travails of beginning book collectors, and I recognized some of my own experiences in the stories the authors tell. However, the book does not take the effort to educate readers so that they can skip over common early errors, nor does it attempt to answer many of the questions that the authors themselves raised when they first began collecting. What determines the price of old books? Why are first editions important? Why should Tarzan books cost more than great works of literature? These are good questions that anyone might think of when getting into book collecting, and you will find the questions but not the answers here.

The book is written in a breezy style that is easy to get through, and if you have two hours at an airport to kill, you could do worse than to read it. But by the time you arrive at your destination, you will have likely forgotten most of what you just read, because so much of it is ephemeral details of the authors' own lives, transportation problems, and experiences. If you are really interested in book collecting, it would be wise to read one of the many books that describe what one should look for, how prices are determined, different styles of book collecting, and so on. Fragments of this knowledge are transmitted in this book, but they will leave you with more questions than answers.

To be sure, not every book about book collecting needs to be a font of wisdom. But the entertainment value of the authors' experiences was weak, and did not make up for the absence of useful content
