
This book is an excellent example of how creationists approach science: write a book with a lot of bafflegab that sounds scientific but is actually devoid of any meaningful content, and then finish up by concluding that evolution is impossible. What a bunch of baloney. 

First of all, evolution, in the sense of "common descent," is not impossible. Even ID-iot superstars Michael Behe, Stephen Meyer, and Jonathan Wells have admitted as much. (See a summary of their recent testimony in the Kansas biology curriculum hearings in the evolution/creationism forum at the West Virginia Gazette. (wvgazettemail) (put "/forums" after com) So any ID-iot who thinks all that bafflegab about irreducible complexity (IC) and the nonsense in this film is the death knell of evolution is simply ignorant.  Man evolved from non-human ancestors. Get over it. 

Thaxton in particular ought to read that summary, since he himself was one of the witnesses and looked particularly ID-iotic.  

In any case, the empirical data discussed in this book is indeed nothing but bafflegab. Talking about the allegedly empirical foundation for intelligent design makes it sound deliciously scientific, especially to poorly educated ID-iots, who generally are clueless about real science; but even if the empirical data is accurate, it's nothing but a facade, because it has nothing to do with the book's main conclusion. 

For example, imagine your neighbor told you that his dog could play Beethoven concertos on the piano. Skeptical, you ask for proof. "Simple," your neighbor replies. "See, here's my dog, and there's my piano." Only a moron would accept that as "proof," and yet ID-iot Christians are more than happy to accept exactly that kind of "proof" from ID-iotic films like this. 

The problem with your neighbor's "proof" is that it proves only the existence of the dog and the existence of the piano.  Neither of those issues, however, was the real cause of your skepticism, so the "proof" was entirely meaningless. The critical issue, of course, was not the mere existence of the dog and the piano, but rather the ability of the dog to play the piano, and your neighbor's "proof" was completely silent on that issue. Again, only a moron would accept evidence of mere existence as proof of piano-playing ability. 

In this book, there's a lot of talk about how complex certain biological systems are.  That is nothing but meaningless bafflegab, because the mere existence of complex systems is not a disputed issue. The disputed issue is how those systems came into being, and on that issue the book's "evidence" is completely silent. 

This book was designed to fool poorly educated, easily impressed ID-iots.  Judging from the five-star reviews, it seems to have succeeded.  Well, there's a sucker born every minute, and apparently a lot of them are found in evangelical churches and seminaries.  In one of the very first evolution debates, Thomas Huxley accused Bishop Wilberforce of using his intellectual and oratorical gifts to mislead and bamboozle people.  Things haven't changed much since then. 

Instead of meaningful evidence, this book substitutes a God-of-the-gaps argument. "Gee, look how complex it is. It must have been created by an intelligent designer. Maybe, just maybe, it was God. Wink, wink." 

God-of-the-gaps arguments are dumb. Only ignorant suckers are taken in by them. So if any of those folks who wrote five-star reviews for this book would like to buy a nice bridge in Brooklyn or a dog who can play Beethoven concertos on the piano, please give me a call.  I'll be happy to provide evidence!
