
I have never actually thrown a book across the room in frustration - and I love books, so this is drastic!  Spoilers ahead - please don't read on if you haven't read the book.  I managed to (somehow) get through the first book, 'Wideacre', which I disliked - whilst I adore the rest of Gregory's novels, so this was hard for me - and grit my teeth and tried to read this book, the sequel as I'd bought it and it looked more promising.  It was 'marginally better' as one reader put it, than the first, but a very depressing and frustrating book indeed.

I was getting very angry and frustrated after the second half of the book - as many other readers have highlighted, Julia's consistent inability to stand up to Richard made it impossible for me to like her anymore.  I quite honestly wanted to slap her to wake her up from that dreamy state she was in!  Because I wanted so much for Julia to be with James - who I liked a great deal.  I was so depressed after everything went wrong and she didn't marry him... ah, because I was expecting the usually very clever Ms Gregory to surprise me and have a twist at the end and say, aha!  She does get her true love in the end and she and Ralph get rid of Richard and although it's not happily ever after she learns to grow a backbone and be the very first female heir to Wideacre.

The rape scene with Julia and Richard was very violent and far too detailed and I think it may be difficult to stomach for anyone who has ever been in an abusive situation like that, in fact, for anyone at all.  I don't want to get into the tricky area of abortion too much, but I really did feel strongly that Julia should have gone to Ralph for help when she concieved the child with Richard.  This was a child of incest and rape - and she knew in her heart there should be no heir for Wideacre - they were all simply too inbred and it needed to end somewhere for nothing was going right.  Clean slate, so to speak.  Yet she gives the child away - then in her final letter asks James to find the child?!  What?!  And I was expecting perhaps a deformed child, after all this inbreeding (I mean this child is the product of parents who are brother and sister AND grandparents who are brother and sister!!!) but she was perfect and beautiful.  I was hoping the gypsies would keep her and she'd never be found again.. but alas, the Lacey madness will live on...

The perfect end to this book would have been a nice twist.  Gregory could have made her very good point about inheritance rights and the lack of power women of Beatrice and Julia's era had by Richard being killed by Ralph, then Julia inheriting the land - baby Sarah is adopted out to the gypsies and never seen again and Julia either lives as a widow and runs the land or (this would have been lovely - I bet all the girls have sighed over James a little, didn't you?  he was a little like the handsome romantic leads in Austen's books) James forgave her - for they had both made mistakes and Julia's was not intentional nor her fault (I was practically screaming at her that it wasn't her fault - and she gets it in the end, when it's too late!) and they marry and have 'normal' children - or perhaps none, they just learn from their mistakes and respect each other, and make a fresh start for Wideacre.

There were so many allies that Julia had - she was a sweet girl and I liked her - I wish that I could have shaken her though, I got so mad.  So many people in the village offered their help - this trap she was caught in with Richard could have been avoided - ahhh... SO frustrating.  I will not be reading the third book in the series.  I shall go back to reading Gregory's more historic novels (A Constant Princess is one I haven't read yet and it sounds excellent).  I wouldn't recommend this one
