
Investment Biker: 1-1/2 stars, just barely escapes the lowest possible rating.

This is a book about what a Tom Wolfe-style Master of the Universe does on holiday. It's nearly impossible to have an "adventure" when you are carrying 10(!) platinum credit cards. He got cold and wet a few times, worried about finding gas, didn't always have hotel rooms up to his standards, and had delays at some borders, yawn.

The adventure must have been resisting the urge to buy an airline ticket back to New York using one of his many Visa cards.

I rode a bicycle around the world for 19 months at about the same time Mr. Rogers was having his "adventure." I am stunned that he perceived so little in his long travels.  I don't know how someone could travel in foreign countries that extensively and end up completely unchanged by the experience.  However, this fits perfectly with his huge arrogance, which is truly the theme of the book.  He already knows it all and will tell you all about it.

Which makes one wonder:  why did he bother to leave NY City in the first place?  I guess it was a good opportunity to pose with and boink the attractive and young (naive and pliable? -- certainly lubricious) daughter of one of his clients.  And a good opportunity to pump himself up by feeling superior to all those "brown faces" he's driving through.  The arrogance, the arrogance!  Typical privileged, right-wing know-it-all.  I'd like to see him try to survive in the Peruvian highlands without all his money and fancy equipment.

This is not a travel book: Mr. Rogers uses his trip as a way to sell a long economic rant. You can save yourself a lot of time by just reading his final chapter, "Afterword." I will summarize his position: governments are bad; smart, rich guys like me are good (remember October 1929?). Many of his predictions are laughably wrong. He advocated selling the US economy short in 1993.  Look at the US stock market performance from 1993 through 2000 ...  Gosh!  Idiot!  Some reviews are touting his prescience on markets.  Hello?  How about his predictions on the biggest economy in the world?

Mr. Rogers' writing is very poor and it's loaded with cliche's. He and Tabitha are always zooming on "powerful steeds" into "gorgeous scenery", or "steep, craggy mountains" into "glitzy, glamorous hotspots" or "delightful, cozy hostels", or across "hot, empty, flat deserts" into "dumps" that are not up to American standards. He'll "describe" one of the greatest mountain chains on earth, the Andes, as "the top of the world" (p. 315) for five short sentences and then move on to more important matters like further adventures with border guards and investing.  Great writing?  Rubbish!  I think he used a computer program to come up with his "descriptions" of the places he went.

Mr. Rogers is woefully ignorant about the places he goes - and he doesn't learn anything along the way. He views the world exclusively through the keyhole of economics. Most of the "interesting facts" he mentions about theses places are just wrong. One indicative example: He describes the Moreno Glacier in Argentina as, "one of the few in the world still moving." (p. 294) I found myself laughing out loud many times at his "facts" and descriptions.

If you want to understand the distribution of goods in the world, read "Guns, Germs, and Steel," by Jared Diamond. If you want to read about a real motorcycle trip, read Ted Simon's "Jupiter's Travels," or Robert Fulton's, "One-Man Caravan."

For good travel books, try:  "Seven Years in Tibet" (Harrer), "News from Tartary" (Fleming), "Arabian Sands" (Thesiger), "Gypsy Moth Circles the World" (Chichester), "Sailing Around the World" (Slocum), "Motoring With Mohammed" (Hanson), "Full Tilt" (Murphy), "A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush" (Newby), or "Eastern Approaches" (MacLean) "My Life with the Eskimo" (Stefansson), "Endurance" (Lansing).  I could go on and on.  "Investment Biker" is poorly-written drivel compared to all these and so many more.

"Investment Biker," a classic? That's ridiculous.

From another review:  "Greatest Book on Finance, Business, Travels Ever"  That comment almost leaves me speechless.  Obviously written by someone who has read very few travel books indeed
