
I have been reading a series of autobiographical accounts of modern day warriors and had high hopes for this title.  As others have pointed out, Coughlin's ego can be suffocating at times.  This could be forgiven if it were the books only flaw.  Alas it is not.  The writing is amateurish at best and the author's overuse of adjective and hyperbole is very distracting.  The language is disjointed and unnatural as if it were written with the heavy use of a thesaurus.  Again this could be forgiven as we're reading this book for a soldier's account, not that of an English grad student.

This book offers a stark contrast in comparison with Nathaniel Fick's "One Bullet Away."  Whereas Fick seems to be an intelligent, thoughtful and humble warrior whose primary concern is the welfare of his men, Coughlin conveys himself as a shallow intellect with more concern for personal glory and satisfaction than anything else.  He is a team player when he hand picks the team and considers them worthy of his own company.

You cannot know a person from reading their writing but Coughlin's character development is very superficial.  His attempts to convey a "human side" are unbelievable and seem grossly contrived.  This is a great contrast to the character development in "One Bullet."  There is no connection between author and reader in "Shooter."  Coughlin does not develop the role players either.  In "One Bullet" you really feel the brotherhood developed among the officer, his NCOs and the enlisted men.  Additionally, Coughlin's demeaning descriptions of his support staff (non-trigger pullers) is tedious and only reinforces doubts about his team ethic.

To make matters worse the action isn't as well developed as in other titles.  The author's self-congratulatory tone and emphasis on personal exploits, with plenty of after-action chest thumping, obscures the view of battle.  He spends little time on the finer elements of sniper tradecraft, training and shooting.  This can be found elsewhere.

Overall this book was a great disappointment.  If only a fraction of Coughlin's self-acclaimed exploits are true, then he is a remarkable sniper.  He should let his accomplishments speak for themselves and not try to beat us over the head with them
