
Without question a book is needed to address the origin and history of late night television and Steve Allen's pivitol role it. Sadly Ben Alba's "Inventing Late Night: Steve Allen and the Original "Tonight Show'', is not that book. It is, largely, a poorly edited and self-contradicting pastiche of previously published memoirs by Allen himself combined with some excellent interviews with Allen's TV contemporaries. These interviews could form the basis of an excellent book by the likes of biographers Scott Berg (Sam Goldwin) or Neal Gabler (Walter Winchle).
The opening chapter, which addresses Allen's dysfuntional up-bring, education and his early days in radio and TV sets the stage for the author's failure to create a full-blooded, well-rounded analytical portrait of Allen and his work. Alba draws here, almost exclusively and certainly uncritically, from Allen's memiors while combining these words with one quote from a childhood friend and two early reviews. Taking Allen and the reader's one independent witness at face value, Allen had a rootless, violent and unstable childhood. Given these negative conditions Alba gives  no hint of how, why or even if, Allen really remained attached to his drunken and generally unstable mother and her equally troubled extended family. The author gives us two brief stories from Allen's adulthood to demonstarte that the family ties endured. Actually, all the stories show is that Allen attended an uncle's funeral and very briefly troted his mother out once on his Sunday night show. How did this dysfunctional world of Allen's youth effect his two marriages and five sons? Why, after a childhood on the fringes of a perlious show business existance did Allen choose this same career field for himself? Alba doesn't even pose such questions about the boy's effects on the man. He just plows ahead in a haliographic haze. Throughout "Inventing..." Alba maintains this pattern of unquestioning acceptance Allen's words. No other witnesses are called, no other points of view are examined. Steve tells a story; Alba accepts it and edits it into his text. Why not read Allen straight?
