
Don't sell it to one country on microfilm for a lot of money, sell it to everybody in hard cover for ~$20.00 a pop.   Somebody is going to have to explain to me the difference between what Risen has done here, and what the Walkers were imprisoned for.

Imagine a WWII era reporter, during the war, giving away that the Allies had broken the Kreigsmarine Enigma code in order to challenge how much money was spent doing it; or how we used false signals to test Japanese intentions in the run-up to Midway just to question whether we correctly evaluated the information; or disclosed the exact D-day landing beaches in a vain attempt to substitute their own "expert" opinion.  

James Risen's product is the same thing, only with a snarkier Monday-morning-quarterback vibe.  And when hindsight is your only insight, you know you're in trouble.  It's easy to figure out who had it right on intelligence issues a few years down the line, even easier to find the "I-told-you-so heroes" eager to tell their tales of cassandrian victimization.   And that's really all State of War does.  It collects a pile of disconnected (often single-sourced and anonymous) anecdotes, and fleshes them out.  The more interesting the story, the more questionably it's sourced, and the fuller its fleshed.  In the end, it's a bloated yet vacuous work that discloses sensitive specifics in order to illustrate a few widely known and obvious generalities, those being:

      Intelligence gathering isn't perfect.  
      Mistakes are often made.  
      Present laws do not keep up with technology.  
      (Just in case you didn't know that already) 

If you're hoping for an across the board Bush slam, think twice.  There's info on botched Clinton-era operations as well (one of which transferred nuclear weapons technology to one of our favorite Mid-East regimes), but again, why?  What's worse, the specifics in the book have given terrorists valuable intelligence without giving anyone else anything usable (Unless cocktail party whining is a "use").  In the wake of this book and the politically-motivated NY Times story, the bad guys have already started altering how they do their communications.  Great news for American civilians and military members alike.   

This book might have a place 10-20 years down the line.  But as it stands, during an active shooting war, a valuable, effective, and completely legal intelligence gathering tool (a tool Clinton used with "0" congressional oversight) is revealed and disabled so that James Risen can buy a boat.  
Another triumph of American journalism!
