
I've always been a big believer in "attack the message" (if you don't agree), don't attack the messenger.  The reverse has been almost standard practice of the Left when they can't refute the truth, facts and common sense of conservatives.  Which is close to 100% of the time. 

So I have to be very careful not to copy the Left when I write as a fifth generation Kansan and having lived all of my life, thus far, in the same "upper-middle class" suburb Mr. Frank seems to so despise in his first and only book.   But his book was so filled with errors, personal opinions disguised as facts and mislabeling of events, people and general culture, as to make it a book of fiction; not one of fact. 

He stated himself he had every advantage presented to him early in life but he chose not to take advantage of them.  He relishes being a victim and seems to mostly be upset that he wasn't born into a poor family of migrant laborers.  Perhaps born as Ms. Condoleezza Rice?  She is certainly a good example of someone held down by evil conservatives and not permitted to excel in life (not).  Living in, and exposed to, the surroundings of his childhood, it appears to me his life's goal was to become a professional victim and a loser in life where the deck is stacked against you from birth.   He's, so far, at least succeeding in that!   Being an accomplished loser.   What a goal! 

His only "accomplishment" was the writing of one book that could only be believed as fact by disciples of The DailyKOS.   

Having written his fictional book of what life is NOT like in Johnson County, Kansas and how he was stopped cold at every turn of life's losing lottery, he really has nothing else to say.   Perhaps he can now survive as an invention of the Left writing the same type of fiction over and over (as he just did for the NY Times).  He must be a very unhappy person.  It seems most liberals are.  How sad.  The only real obstacle they have in life is seen in their mirror each morning.  That's it no matter how much they deny reality. 

He seems like an intelligent young man who had everything going for him.  What a waste of talent.   Now, he's just another "victim" doing his best to convince everyone else they too should just give up as they can't win in life no matter how hard they try.  As I intimated, I'm sure glad Condoleezza Rice ignored people like him!  I just wish people like him were fewer in number and that more ignored their delusional vision of reality.

Checking in from Kansas, he is a "one book wonder".  
