
John R. Barry (another Digital Communications textbook author) first introduced me to this text.  And Mr. Barry, as with many com. theory persons I've met since (GTRI in Atlanta, GA; MITRE along around the Boston area of MA; Northrup in El Segundo, CA; Intersil in Palm Bay/Melbourne, FL) actually use this book to justify their values and beliefs.  Essentially, it's their Bible.  The only problem is that the values and beliefs in Proakis, especially from an engineering perspective, are very third rate.  Trying to use this text in a classroom situation, especially with a third rate engineer as an instructor, is an utter disaster from both an economic and an engineering perspective.

John R. Barry, for example, is a very good baby-sitter and a so-so mathematician (he couldn't be otherwise as a faculty member of Georgia Tech).  But as an engineer, John R. Barry, as with the other followers of Proakis, compares very unfavorably (in fact, I don't consider Barry an engineer; I consider him a phony that should be removed from the ECE faculty of GATECH; the department's economic fortunes would be far better if he were moved into some kind of adjunct English/Mathematics Faculty or just shipped off to some research laboratory without any students to harm [i.e., vampirically mind f--k them and then kindly provide them with werewolfic deliverance (yes, I mean along the lines of the 1972 movie with Jon Voight [Angelina Jolie's Dad] and Burt Reynolds)]...any place where truth/reality aren't so important).  There are far, far better communications engineers out there than John R. Barry [infinitely better to be precise].  And what makes these others better [others meaning real engineers; John R. Barry being a make-believe "engineer"] is not mathematical ability, memorized knowledge, or even rhetorical shrewdness, but rather the difference lies in a faith of facts; something a follower of Proakis never seems to possess or even grasp the possibility.  

In fact, the values and beliefs in the Proakis text seem to promulgate not only  Intellectual Abuse, but also a Spiritual sort as well. In a nation (where Steven Pinker, who like Proakis is of Harvard Fame, has noted) that has around 75% of its population esentially believing in the biblical/torah-related account of things, this kind of Spiritual abuse can be very dangerous indeed and lead to serious consequences.  Though it may not be intentional, nevertheless, the values and beliefs of Proakis's text and those of its instructors tend to be extremely spiritually abusive.  These values and these beliefs somehow set up a massive cognative dissonance with many student's own biblical/torah-related values and beliefs.  The result is almost always a broken-spirit.  From an economic perspective, this is bad. Very bad. And it should be stopped by no longer using this text or any like it.

Most of the "engineers" now being "developed" by the followers of Proakis (e.g., John R. Barry) are very analogous to Mid 20th Century Carribean medical school "doctors."  They can say, write, and use a lot of terminology making them useful for billing purposes, i.e. writing up invoices to Insurance/Government agencies.  These "engineers" like those "doctors" don't and probably never will understand the essence of their professions, though because of their training or lack thereof they really think they do.  When in fact, they are utterly clueless "professionals.
