
in the possibility that Steve Berry could ever transcend his not-so great debut, The Amber Room.  Romanov Prophecy started in the right direction, Third Secret was OK, but I think he hit his *peak* right there.

I really want authors to get better--heck, I hope to write better papers as I go along in college.  But, Steve Berry, sorry.  And for all you people out there who don't like it when people give negative reviews of a book you like, just hang on a second before you give me a big fat NO vote.  

First of all, even though this is fiction, the whole Da Vinci Code genre purports to be based on fact.  Berry always writes his Note at the end to underscore this.  However, if you want the reader to accept your plot, please get some basic facts correct first.  The most annoying one for me, as, ahem, a French major, is the very dramatic chapter closer where they zip off to the "Palais des Popes."  Excuse.  Me.  "Popes"?  Just because the English word looks kind of like the French word "pape" (for pope) doesn't mean you can flippantly swap them!  Eek.  And, btw, this is a real place, so some editor somewhere should have noticed this.  Shame on you, S.B.'s editors.  OK, I'm not saying a novel must contain no anachronisms whatsoever (it IS fiction, after all), but really big, glaring mistakes of geography or history cannot be tolerated.

The other main issue I have with this book is the vehement attack on Jesus Christ and the resurrection and the Bible as a whole.  Cotton Malone, our hero, says that the Bible contains hundreds (I'm paraphrasing) glaring inconsistencies.  If I remember correctly, he says that one of the gospels (he picks on Matthew a lot) doesn't place Bethlehem as the place of Jesus' birth.  That one doesn't hold water--I checked Matthew myself.  Says so in ch. 2.  I don't mean to thump the metaphorical Bible, but who is Steve Berry to question the authenticity of the world's #1 bestseller ever?  That's quite audacious ... some would even say blasphemous--but I tread on glass.  

I really can't go into the terrible character development, or lack thereof, or the wussy Knights Templar.  Yeah, they're big and bad, but Malone seems to bump them off with the greatest of ease.  Some "Knights of Christ" they are.  

Well, having alienated most of you, I bid you farewell as I go in search of a more worthy book
