
Have you ever read a book that just seemed to drag on and on?  For me, that was this book.  If you like fantasy then you might like this, because that is the genre of this book.  It is about a Jewish girl named Hannah.  She goes to a family party and hears a knock on the door.  She opens it and then sort of wakes up and she thought it was a dream.  She now has a new name, Chaya.  She now has to figure out what happened, and what she will do in this body.  It takes place in New Rochelle.  It is old times.  It doesn't give a specific time but you can infer by the clues and setting.  She doesn't know why this happened to her but she must try to fix it.
	I didn't like this book at all.  I thought it was really hard to follow.  You have to pay attention throughout the whole book.  You can never daydream or you won't know why they are calling her a new name.  This was definitely made for older adults, or people with a higher reading level.  If you are a good reader and you like to challenge yourself, try this book.  I don't recommend this book if you are younger, or just not that well of a reader.  This is for very and I mean very good and high level readers.  I would say between the ages of 25-60 might like this book.  I don't think this book was a page turner.  I wanted to put it down, instead of not wanting to put it down.  It never sparked my interest.  Her being Jewish, and the book being a fantasy, I couldn't relate to anything that happened.  This book was hard to concentrate on.  If you look up for one second, you miss most of the story, so concentrate hard.  I couldn't relate to anyone. I am not Jewish.  If you are Jewish, you might actually understand this book better than I could.  I didn't like the genre.  It was all fake and totally unrealistic.  If you like that sort of stuff, then read this book, but I don't like fantasy.  I didn't like how it was written.  It was too hard to concentrate on.  I had to reread twice to find out why they are calling her a different name.  I never found any surprised in the story.  I could guess what would happen next.  It was predictable.  None of the chapters had cliffhangers.  If just was boring and that's it.  I thought it was extremely boring.  I didn't understand anything and I would rather do my homework, than read that book.  My mind wandered a lot.  I had to read sections over and over again.  I never believed the plot one bit.  With the story being fantasy, everything is farfetched.  I think older people would enjoy this book, because they would be the only ones who could understand it. 

