
The official censes of the Ottoman Empire in the early 1900s showed well over five million Christians living in the provinces of what are now modern Turkey.  Western specialists who helped the Turks conduct their censes stated that the Turks purposely undercounted the Christians and overcounted the Turks.  So, there were many more than just five million Christians.  There are now approximately only a hundred thousand Christians in Modern Turkey.  The question that the author pointedly neglects to address is what happened to the difference between over five million in the early 1900s and only a hundred thousand people today.  We know that over a million surviving Greeks were expelled in the exhange of populations between Greece and Turkey in 1923.  Again, what happened to the huge difference of 4-5 million people?  To the 1.5 million massacred Armenians, must be added three quarters to a million Assyriac Christians (Aramaic-speaking Arab Christians) and as many as two million Greeks (almost 30 percent of the Greek people).  The author does not touch on the large numbers of Christians who were enslaved by Turks or forced to convert to Islam to avoid massacre which explains the large number Greek-speaking "Turks" around Trebizon on the Black Sea.  

It is not as if there is not vast contemporary accounts of neutral and Western observers of this enormous genocide and ethnic cleansing of the original, pre-Turkish populations of Anatolia.  I can only conclude that the author had such an inborn bias in favor of Turkey as to ignore a slaugher that approaches the Jewish holocaust of WWII.  Avoiding this subject amounts to holocaust denial.  

The Christian genocide was the first great genocide of the 20th century and Hitler's model for the Jewish genocide. The massacre of the Greek and Armenian population of Smyrna (now Izmir) ranks with the Rape of Nanking in sheer horror and scale, but the author skips over it in a rush to avoid any detail of the crime or assign any blame except to the Greeks and Armenians by repeating the discredited canard that they set fire to their own city.  

The author's treatment of the Christian genocide reminds me of the comments to me of a Turkish officer at a NATO conference which were to the effect that there had been no Armenian genocide (the Turkish Government official line) but, in any case, that they had deserved it.  The author seems to have taken her treatment of the subject from the Turkish Government as well
