
Since God is Infinite Goodness, we must conclude that the appearance of reckless divine cruelty is a delusion.  When we are comfortable, we are too shallow-minded to realize that we need God.  Since God knows that He is the only thing that we really need, He inflicts pain upon us to wake us up to this fact.  So pain is God's megaphone.  If some people, such as the Jews, try to love God without going through Christ, it is not yet God - merely the best approximation their fantasy can attain.  Hence poor God is forced to keep screeching at them through His megaphone.  But even people who try their hardest to love the true God, such as Job, or C. S. Lewis for that matter, cannot adore God as much as He wants to be adored, so He uses pain over and over again to "plant the flag of truth within their rebellious souls."    

Where does this notion of an Infinitely Good God come from?  Given mankind's painful existence, "an inference from the course of events in this world to the Goodness and Wisdom of the Creator would be preposterous."  God had to reveal Himself to mankind by Revelation; thus it is in the likes of Abraham and Moses, who identified God as righteous, that all peoples are blessed.  Lewis informs us that God expostulated with His own creatures on the basis of their own ethical conceptions - "What iniquity have your fathers found in me, that they are gone far from me?"  One has to wonder if Lewis has ever actually read the Bible.  Can anyone really deny that if a leader of today did exactly the sorts of things that Abraham and Moses did that they would be decried by all of sane mankind as monsters?  I have never understood why, or how, I am supposed to pretend that this is not true.  Of course, God is wiser than me, so if I could only see it from God's viewpoint, I would see that the butchery of whole populations, including babies and animals, was actually an act of love.  In MERE CHRISTIANITY Lewis condemns this line of reasoning in eastern religions as "damn nonsense."  Undoubtedly, we get the impression of a just and loving God through the teachings of Christ, but the conviction that God is Infinite Goodness, Omniscience, and Omnipotence did not come from biblical revelation; it was developed by medieval Christian philosophers by reasoning through extrapolation -- a process that Lewis, rather inexplicably, deems impossible.

Lewis's insistence that people have free will needs to be examined.  Even as he describes it, since we are born in sin, we cannot use free will to avoid sin, and most people are blind to their sin.  Hence, it logically follows that there can be no free will without the ability of self-perception.  The evidence suggests that incessant pain, especially when inflicted upon children, destroys this ability.  Abused children typically grow up to be abusers.  In my own case, I adamantly insist it was the drug, marijuana, which first gave me introspective ability, at the age of 23.  Prior to that moment, God knows that I had no free will.  Free will is not a realized trait that we are born with, but a potential ability that requires a great deal of effort to develop.  In most people it remains largely dormant.  Since free will is dependent on self-knowledge, the role of religion needs to be the development of introspective ability.  Dogmatic adherence can only hinder this.

Lewis is at least honest enough to acknowledge evolution.  Unfortunately, it is hardly possible to reconcile the notion of evolution of man from animals with his fairy-tale notion that animals only exist by destroying each other because they were corrupted by Satan before man's appearance on Earth.  Somehow, the perfectly good "Paradisal Man" descended from animals already corrupted by Satan.  Lewis can be abominably silly sometimes.

Lewis is given to disjunctive, either/or, logic.  Either the common human experience of supernatural awe is a mere twist in the mind with no biological purpose, or it is direct experience of the supernatural - a Revelation.  I would once have scoffed at this, but a Numinous vision of Christ was the major turning point of my life.  The problem is that this Revelation was not at all consistent with Mere Christianity.  According to Lewis, the purpose of pain is to break our will, since it is our tarnished wills that keep us from God.  I had only recently come to realize that I had not had free will until my sense of self was awakened by an illegal drug.  I experienced Christ in the very moment that I was cursing Christ for demanding that I beg forgiveness for that which He was responsible.  Albeit, at the time I was an atheist, and was only cursing at what I had been taught about Christ.  I experienced Christ as the core of my being, not as an entity completely separate from myself, and as an awakening of will, not a surrender.  Lewis assures me that the feeling of being one with God, rather than a creature of God, is Satan's ultimate deception.  But I have also experienced Satan within myself.  If Christ were not the core of my being, I would never have survived Satan.  I know the difference.  I do not acknowledge that Christianity has the authority tell me what my experience of God must be.

I am a scientist by training, not given to superstitious credulity, however much like it what I have written above must sound.  In my attempt to make sense of my experience of Christ and Satan battling within my mind, I have come up with the following myth:  It is, at least, not completely unreasonable to assume that consciousness is an inherent quality of existence.  This consciousness would first be in a primordial state, probably in some way responsible for evolution, though not by anything like intelligent design by direct control.  There could be no distinction between good and evil; in fact the terms could have no meaning, until consciousness evolved to a complexity capable of self-awareness.  As self-awareness developed, so did awareness of pain and terror, and a rebellion against achieving a level of awareness capable of experiencing pain.  The human mind, as the vessel of consciousness experiences these antagonistic trends and, for whatever reason, tends to personify them as God and Satan, or their various cultural equivalents.  What makes the Christian God so detestable is His complete refusal to accept responsibility for anything.  Satan can therefore be described as "God's self-ignorance."  Buddhists are apparently able to put themselves into the conscious state of inanimate matter, hence there insistence that good and evil are identical.  C. S. Lewis tells us that "it is not God's purpose that we should go back into that old identity."  I think I agree with him on this point.  Mankind's goal must be to attain free will be becoming conscious of what we really are.
(Peter Payne, author of CAPTAIN CALIFORNIA:  A YOUNG MAN'S ENCOUNTER WITH THE EVIL WITHIN HIMSELF)              
