
I recently picked up a copy of Mage: The Awakening not knowing quite what to expect. Since Ars Magica I've loved Mage. From GURPs I quickly switched over to White Wolf's editions of Mage: The Ascension, finally setting on the revised copy most commonly used on game sites today.

Mage: The Ascension Revised was truly a delight, featuring a complexity never seen before in role playing games. A complexity that made working magic truly fun, sure there were flaws, without a good Storyteller you could easily abuse the open ended magic system to do absolutely anything you wanted... but it was a good price to pay for flexibility, interesting possibilities and an all around great RP system.

Is it fair to compare Mage: The Awakening with Mage: The Ascension Revised? Of course not, the game has to be based on its own merits and flaws. The problem is that this game seems to suffer from a lack of creativity which pervades the RP modern RP market. It also seems to be marketed toward a very specific audience.

With the exception of some really interesting RP books (White Wolf's translation of "Engel" from the German, a role playing experience distinct onto itself and wholly creative, and "Demon: The Fallen" - which was unfortunately a flop and still managed to be creative), RP books are typically very bland and all the same. 

Mage: The Awakening is no different. Unfortunately it tries to blend easy mechanics with simple spells as though past Mage books have been too complicated (which they haven't, unless the new World of Darkness market is much younger than they previously were... which is a possibility, or perhaps they aren't interested in realistic depth so much as they are just having quick fun). 

There is absolutely nothing culturally significant about the Mage: The Awakening game system. If you enjoyed the Buddhist, Hindu, the various forms of Christian, Judaic and other religious outlooks being present in your game system, Mage: The Awakening takes a step back from the pluralism/intellectually stimulating material found in its predecessors and offers a quick, fun system with no lasting appeal.

The background story of Mage: The Awakening is simply terrible. Sure reviews constantly pick on Atlantis, but for a good reason: there's simply nothing else to pick on! The Awakening is simply devoid of any depth whatsoever, but what it does do is provide some interesting magic rotes (spells) instead.

Another problem is that there are no antagonists. In previous Mage games there were antagonists you could use or not use depending on your game. In Awakening they don't even offer any choices. This game is obviously less popular online and more popular in tabletop settings (online, where depth is usually called for, Mage: The Ascension is still used quite frequently).

Some positive qualities about the book are that it has an excellent production value and it provides a concrete game system to play with. Provided you had an excellent Storyteller present with lots of storyline ideas, you might have a fun tabletop session. But quite frankly aside from the production value I can't recommend this book. The largest problem of all is that it simply has nothing distinctive about it... nothing to make it stand out and be worth playing over previous game systems.

In an age of simplicity please do yourself a favor and have a little patience and find yourself a good Storyteller. Go back and read the books that made this one sell like hotcakes - buy the "real" Mage books - if you still want to, pick up a copy of The Awakening and somehow incorporate it in your game
