
First off, I have not read this book myself, so disreguard this review if you want. I'm reviewing it because based on the reviews and what I can tell here, and from descriptions from my own mother, I believe this is the book she used in a failed attempt to potty-train me. I am 99% sure, but she does not remember the title so I can't be 100% sure.
My mother described a system where she devoted one day to nothing but potty-training. She got everyone else out of the house, and removed all my toys from eyesight. Then she went through a detailed explanation using a potty doll and had me try to explain it back, using the doll. She then showed me what looked like a whole kitchen full of little toys and candy, and told me I would get rewarded for using the potty that day. I remember all that part. After that she said that we went through a process where she had to scold me for accidents and we did nothing but try to go potty all day. I was definately old enough to be doing this, because I actually remember it. (I am 25 now, so if this book was published in the late 70s or early 80s, I'm being accurate.)
Now, let me tell you the results. I don't remember how I felt that day, but I do know that it started something that became a huge emotional battle for me. I was a very sensitive child, and I am a very sensitive adult. What mom and I remember was that potty-training became a war in our home- and it took YEARS. Because of my sensitivities and my mother's poor choice in training methods, I began holding my bowel movements. (I was able urinate in the potty at a normal age, not sure when.) I would hold bowel movements whenever I had the urge to go, even if she put me back in a diaper. I held for weeks at times, and sometimes this required a lot of pain for me (obviously). When it finally got to the point that I couldn't hold it anymore, the BM was so big that I needed physical help to go. Sometimes it would get so bad that the opposite result would happen- I'd have a sudden diarheaa because the muscles were fatigued. This went on for years, and the doctors kept telling mom that I'd eventually outgrow it. She tried suppositories, oil, fiber, and even started giving me adult doses of laxatives. Finally, when I was 5 (two years into this), Mom made a tape recording of me SCREAMING while trying to go to the bathroom. A doctor took pity on us and prescribed enemas. I used them on and off for two more years. I was finally fully potty trained- AT SEVEN. I am now 25, and occasionally I still notice some health problems that may be attributable to this.

Now, obviously there is no way I can fully explain why all that happened, and I certainly can not blame all of that on the book. I was a very sensitive kid, and my mom picked a bad time to do it too (I had just had a baby brother). But I just want to describe the danger of using a insensitive method. And I'm not just talking about the pain I went through there- if we're to believe Freudian theories about the anal stage of childhood- well, let's just say I could be his poster child.
I am now potty-teaching my own highly sensitive daughter, who will be 3 in a week. We have been working on this (no specific methods, just lots of sitting on the potty) for over a year now, and with NO results. But I'm not in a hurry, and thats because she's not ready, and we need to do this on her timetable, not mine
