
First a little background... I'm 53 with a preteen son. I'm not quite a Luddite.  I make my living from an online business that I own and operate. Our "big" present to our son last Xmas was a computer -- one he and I were going to build from scratch. The main use of the computer was going to be video games and school work. We gave our son a budget (not big by gamer PC standards) to shop for the parts. 

I've read a few books recently on the gaming "culture" to better understand it. This book came highly recommended from reviews here, so I read it.

My reaction to the book? It took a while, but I finally realized it felt like I was reading a study paid for and prepared on behalf of the video game industry. There are lots of great statistics, but rather flimsy rational defending extensive video game playing and how it's successfully preparing gamers to succeed in the future.  

I did learn a few things. I got a dose of reality about why it seems like everyone under 35 plays video games extensively. I see that the *gamer generation* has a lot to offer. I also seriously wonder about the gaps in what they have to offer.

A main thesis of the book is that gamers learn how to think and figure things out, because video games are about figuring out how to beat the game. Interesting, since by the examples cited, it mostly appears to be trial and error with no significant logic involved. I call it learn by trying anything, as opposed to learn by thinking. Both have their place.

Supposedly, gamers are more willing to take (theoretically controlled) risks as well. Somehow the authors see the dot.com boom (and bust) as an endorsement of the future of business in the hands of gamers (who largely ran the dot.coms). I see a different story than the authors from those days of yore.

I could go on, but I think you get the point. The book says little (nothing?) about how video games are helping gamers learn math, science, or reading. Personally, I believe those skills/knowledge are MUCH more important to a person's future than the ability to learn thru trial and error. 

Maybe the conclusions of the authors will prove to be correct. I hope so. But personally, I'm concerned for any business that runs on the pure gamer mentality that I understand to be endorsed by the book.
