
If I had been an editor and received "Deadly Slipper",
I would have said the following:

"Dear Ms. Wan,

Your book is unacceptable for the following reasons:

1) The Setting.  One hazard of writing about the place
where you spend your summers is that you end up
writing through the eyes of a visitor rather than a
native.  Dordogne sounds delightful,and I'd certainly
like to visit it based on your descriptions of
delightful pigeon coops and sheep scattered across the
landscape, but it is disturbing that you have
cicadas singing in May.  It suggests you are only
familiar with the setting during the vacation months
when you habitually visit. To really describe a place,
I think you need to know it better.

2) The characters.  Because you spend your summers in
Dordogne, you appear to know only other wealthy
foreigners.  All your main characters are expatriates
with irritatingly bourgeois occupations.  I don't know
if you realize that all the native-born French
characters you portray are ugly, boorish, sexually
depraved, mentally defective, criminal, or terminally
quaint, and they all appear to make cheese.  Surely
this isn't a realistic portrayal of the French.

3) The Orchids.  Actually, the orchids are fine, but
the idea that orchid fanciers are maniacal and
possibly homicidal is a questionable one; most orchid
fanciers are fairly tedious.  Also, the idea that a lady
slipper mutant would spontaneously occur and allow the
orchid to live outside its native habitat is idiotic. 
Anyone would tell you that a hybrid is a better bet.

4) The Dogs.  One cute dog is sufficient; two are too
much.  Puppies are inexcusable.

5) The Romance.  Most mystery writer are aware of the
hazard of including a romance in a mystery, but you
walked in innocently, unaware that your two characters
are unpleasant, self-involved and have no chemistry
(and that's not even mentioning their unspeakable
dogs).  You set a big obstacle in their path by having
one think the other is a deranged serial killer; a
great writer might be able to pull this off, but you
can't. 

6) Trendoid aspects.  Epistolary novels are *so* 18th
century.  But having a NY psychiatrist profile the
serial killer by email is so LAST WEEK.  You will be
sorry you did this, sooner rather than later.  

7) The Ending.  Ridiculous and melodramatic.  Georges Simenon wrote about crime with great psychological acuity.  You should read one of his books.

