
  I bought this at (yep, you guessed it) the grocery store, which was a very clever marketing concept on Martha's part. There was only one DVD left. It contained Classic recipes for chicken, beef, fish, vegetarian and other main dishes. If you think you ALREADY know how to make classic, everyday dishes such as meatloaf, think again - because Martha's variations may put a whole new twist on your usual standards. Her use of fresh herbs truly does make a difference and the glaze on her meatloaf was one I hadn't tried before. My family loved it. 

    There is also a section with Bloopers (yes, Martha's mistakes or mishaps while filming a scene - slips, falls, etc). There are 12 different cupcake variations and an extra section on kitchen tips (I learned plenty of new things from this section). 
  
  I have to admit that I looked at the Bloopers section first, intrigued by the idea of actually seeing Martha make mistakes.. and I only wish there were more of those. They were funny, especially the one showing Martha pulling an X-rated carrot from her garden. You'll have to buy the DVD to see the rest. It is a very short section, however.  

  Then I watched the DVD from start to finish and marveled at the quality of the production, as well as HOW MUCH information was packed into this DVD. From start to finish, each recipe was demonstrated clearly. I intend to use this one with my youngest child because it is a perfect introduction to some classic recipes, from roast chicken to meatloaf. They may not be made the way you are used to making them but in one case that was an advantage...the meatloaf recipe was far better than my standard version and the glaze was delicious (do be aware of your oven's peculiarities, however, and cover the top to keep the glaze from burning; uncover just long enough to brown). It would be best, of course, to use an oven thermometer and know your oven's actual temperature since 350 in one oven may not be 350 in another - those dials may be inaccurate. 

  But don't make the mistake of thinking this is only for beginning cooks (although it'd be a perfect housewarming gift for the college graduate who is just setting up house). There are plenty of new recipes, especially a squash casserole which I am dying to try on my vegetarian friends, after having tested it on my family and getting rave reviews. In fact, one of the nicest sections of this DVD was the Vegetarian one. Each of those recipes looked delicious.

   Martha's mother is featured in some of the segments and that was a pleasant surprise. She and Martha chat as they cook and the whole atmosphere is nice and casual.  

   No matter what you may think of Martha Stewart, this DVD is a top-notch, quality production with tons of useful info. 

   The DVD can also be inserted in a computer to get a list of menus and other features. 

 
