
"Greetings" is an offbeat satire from a very young Brian De Palma starring an equally young Robert De Niro.  The vignettes focus on three friends.  First there is Jon Rubin (De Niro), an aspiring filmmaker who has the idea of creating "peep art."  This would consist of filming "private moments," and then letting people view them through tiny windows, thereby re-creating the Peeping Tom experience (more of this in De Palma's much better 1970 film, "Hi, Mom!").  However, if you are expecting to see an amazing performance by one of the great actors of his generation in an early film, you are going to be disappointed.  De Niro comes off as overly mannered and a bit forced in his performance, especially in comparison to his two co-stars.  His best moment is off-screen as he talks a woman through going to bed for his peep art (she repeatedly forgets not to talk).  But he is a lot better two years later and had a decent career, at least until he started making credit card commercials.

First there is Lloyd Clay (Gerrit Graham), a conspiracy nut so obsessed with the JFK assassination that a half-naked woman sleeping in his bed is just another opportunity to show that the paths indicated by the bullet holes do not match up (unless JFK was shot while standing on his head).  Lloyd shares his deep, dark thoughts directly with the viewing audience as he argues vigorously to convince us he is right.  But sometimes he finds people in the real world to assault with his blow-ups from the Zapruder film that reduce the assassination to a Rorschach test.  Finally, we have Paul Gerald Shaw (Jonathan Warden), who would like to find the right girl.  His problem is that he has his induction physical and going to Vietnam will really hurt his love life.  Fortunately, Lloyd and Jon are fully of ideas as to how Paul can get the army to reject him, everything from pretending to be gay and coming on to the sergeant (Lloyd's idea) to volunteering to shoot not only the Vietcong but also any American troops of color (Jon's brainstorm).  

There is no real narrative thread here, which is hardly a criticism because "Greetings" is more of an ancestor of "The Groove Tube," "Saturday Night Live," and "Second City TV" in the history of contemporary sketch comedy with a heavy satirical bent.  The difference is that what De Palma and his friends come up with in "Greetings" is more experimental guerilla theater than really polished sketch comedy.  But there is something compelling about its enthusiasm, which makes us forgive the filmmaker and his actors when things go on a bit too long.  De Palma has admitted to being influenced by Godard and the French "Nouvelle Vague" cinema, which inspired going out on the street and trying to improvise scenes (only they did not have enough film to improvise, so they ended up rehearsing most of the film to save money).   But even in this early work, De Palma is clearly into doing everything you can do with a movie camera (inter-titles, split-screen, slow-motion, fast-motion, etc.).

"Greetings" is a historical footnote in cinematic history inasmuch as it was the first film in the U.S. to be given an "X" rating (later changed to "R," which is what it would qualify today because of some of the shots of nude women).  In terms of social history "Greetings" represents some of the counter-culture politics of the late 1960s.  It had been almost thirty years since I first saw "Greetings" and "Hi, Mom!"  Back then they constituted part of my first real exposure to radical thought in terms of what was out there on the streets.  If you see just one of these films, interested in how De Palma was cutting his teeth as a director before he made his name with "Carrie" and "Dressed to Kill," then "Hi, Mom!" is the choice (the "Black in America/Be Black Baby" bit is the must see segment of that satire).  But if you are interested in De Palma's career or counter-culture comedy from the late 1960s, then check them both out
