
SUNSET BOULEVARD is a drama that reveals the unsightly day-to-day world of forgotten and upcoming actors behind the pomp pretense. Joe Gillis (William Holden), a writer running from a pair of automobile repossessers, holds up in the garage of an apparently abandoned mansion on Sunset Boulevard. While walking around the dilapidated structures and evaporated pool, he is shocked to discover it's occupied by old silent-film star Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson). 

Living with a devoted chauffeur, estranged from Hollywood and forgotten by fans, in Desmond's mind, she is still a star working on her next big roll in a script she has been scribbling for years. Knowing the script doesn't have a chance, as a writer, Joe looks at this as an opportunity to "fine tune" it to earn some extra cash. However, the working relationship is not all that tidy. It seems lonely Desmond is looking to sponsor a gigolo. His payment is a warm place to stay at night, a closet full of clothes, nice meals, private "parties," and Desmond's ever-present company.

If it were possible for Desmond's self-admiration to be supplanted by anything, it would be the possessiveness for Joe's affection. Young Joe needs a break from such austere surroundings and eventually goes out to a party with real people and meets a girl engaged to an old friend. Through a series of secret rendezvous they begin to collaborate on a script with real potential and, naturally, develop feelings for one another. The girl may be willing to sacrifice her engagement but breaking free from the tentacles on SUNSET BOULEVARD is a formidable challenge. 

With some of the most memorable quotes in Hollywod, this is a wonderfully produced "noir-comic" drama by Billy Wilder that well projects the intense emotions, not only of each character, but of the large group of people in the entertainment industry they represent. Other highly acclaimed movies that fit in with this genre are ALL ABOUT EVE, AN IMITATION OF LIFE, and WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE. A gem on the DVD extras is the history of fashion legend Edith Head.

Movie quote: "There's nothing tragic about being fifty. Not unless you're trying to be twenty-five.
