
Hector Elizondo is an actor of uncommon skill.  Aside from his superlative work as a Doctor on "Chicago Hope" he has been often cast as a sideman in films - the trusted aide, the sympathetic boss - but often in supporting roles.  In "Tortilla Soup" he takes the leading role in a Mexican-American remake of Ang Lee's "Eat Drink Man Woman".   

He plays Martin Naranjo, a Mexican Chef so gifted that all who eat his cuisine proclaim him an artist.  The movie has delightful flourishes where we see dishes being prepared, then eaten, that are so delightful that you can almost perceive the wonderful aroma leaping from the screen.  Martin is has lost much of his sense of taste, which he thinks is a cruel irony, but his Cuban partner reminds him that Beethoven composed his greatest symphonies after he had lost the sense of hearing.  Martin also has 3 daughters who he has raised sinced becoming a widower 15 years ago.  Elizabeth Pena is Leticia, the pious schoolteacher who is invited to ask the blessing prior to the family meals although she turns a simple "grace" into mini-sermons.  Jacqueline Obradors is the saucy Carmen, who was encouraged to get her MBA by Martin, but has difficulty balancing the borderline ethics of large business deals with her growing realization that she is not pursuing her passion - as her father did with his wondrous cooking.  Tamara Mello is the youngest Maribel who finds herself torn between the pressure to go to college and to "find herself".  Constance Marie is family friend Yolando, who is the same age as the older sisters and is coming to the end of a dissatisfying marriage with a young daughter who Martin dotes on.  Raquel Welch is Yolando's mother, Hortensia, who is also without a man and plainly has designs on the compassionate and accomplished Martin.   

The film depicts the evolution of these various characters as they come to terms with the progression of their love lives and professions.  At the beginning of the film all of the characters are single.  By the end they've all been paired off in one manner or another, some in a manner more satisfyingly realistic than others.  Raquel Welch is a bit of a distraction in the film.  At age 61 she has a show-stopping beauty that few woman would aspire to at age 25.  In a film full of attractive performers she doesn't "look her age" enough to blend into the story.  She plays the part of geriatric bombshell jester and in a nice ensemble this role sticks out like a geriatric bombshell jester. 

The movie otherwise has some realistic and positive things to say about aspirations and relationships and I would recommend it if only to watch Hector Elizondo around the dinner table and in the kitchen.
