
Hospitals are inherently spooky.  Scenes of so much pain and death, the very walls soaking up the agony through the years, they can slowly affect the minds and souls of those that work there.  The hospital in "Infection" ("Kansen") is in particularly bad shape. Losing money, unable to keep staff, the doctors and nurses working there are under-qualified and desperate.  Into this unstable environment comes a strange patient, with a black, infectious rash.  Slowly, the rash spreads, revealing a terrifying disease that liquidates the insides of a human's body, slowly driving the staff insane with fear and anticipation.  But all is not as it seems, even then.

I'm impressed that, even watching as much J-Horror as I do, "Infection" still managed to creep me out.  It was unexpectedly good.  Director Masayuki Ochiai knows the things in a hospital that can make you cringe, and he uses them to their fullest extent.  He also keeps you guessing as to exactly what kind of horror movie this is.  Is it about a devastating biological infection?  Are those ghosts?  Is that a serial killer?  All of his images and slow revelations of the story keep making less and less sense, disorientating you just when you think you have a handle on it, until the final page is revealed and it all comes crashing home.

"Infection" isn't quite a gross-out flick, like "Ichi the Killer," but it definitely relies on visual shock for its scares while keeping a good atmosphere.  If anything, it manages to combine the creepy mood of J-Horror ghost films like "Ring" while still delivering on cringe-worthy gore.  One scene in particular had me going.  When you see the movie, you will know what it was.

As part of the "J-Horror Theater" series, and directer by a relatively new-comer who's experience has mainly been doing horror TV shows, I didn't have high expectations for this film.  I thought it would be a cheap job, done to cash in on the current J-Horror fad.  I was wrong. It is quite a well made little horror flick, not outstanding or groundbreaking, but really excellent for what it is
