
This movie is obviously not for everyone. It's not a comedy that you just put in and sit back and be shut down the old cranium for the two plus hour's. Nope, instead you get the muscle a-cranking. Huckabees requires you to really pay attention and think and take everything in. This film explores several questions mainly dealing with the connection between one person and to the heart, soul, and body of every other thing in existence in an ever-changing world. This film is a big orgy of questioning. And who doesn't like questioning? This film, in its own right, is very original and thought provoking that goes above and beyond any form of typicality of films.

"Huckabees" offers us an impressive cast with Dustin Hoffman, Lily Tomlin, Jason Schwartzman, Jude Law, Mark Wahlberg, Isabelle Huppert (one of my favorite international actress's) and Naomi Watts. Most notable performances by, namely, Dustin Hoffman as it's nice to see him in an exceptional role. He hasn't really been given a great script and chance to portray a great character since probably 1997's "Wag the Dog." It's very nice to see Hoffman play a great character, as Bernard, the quirky husband half of the existential detectives. Also, most notable is the performance of Mark Wahlberg, as Tommy Corn, another client of the detectives that befriends Albert. Tommy is a fire fighter who has his own environmental concerns as he refuses to ride on the fire truck and rather, rides a bike to the fire saying, "We'd all be heroes if we stopped using petroleum." Mark Wahlberg is hilarious in this movie and has his best performance since probably "Boogie Nights" and "Three Kings." However, this movie is much more of an ensemble performance than anything else. The ensemble's performance in this film is terrific and the chemistry between each character is flawless. 

The most credit to this movie goes to writer/director David O. Russell. Russell has obviously something going on up there in the cabeza to extract such a story. But the story is amazingly written. The script is out of the ordinary yet genius and comes out as one of the most intelligent films out there and hilarious at that.
