
One thing about Arrested Development that I forgot to mention in my previous review is how the humor holds up nicely over the years.  What I found funny last year when I was watching the show is JUST as consistently funny now.  In fact, now that I understand the style of humor better, I think the show is even funnier now.  

Fox had something good cooking with Arrested Development.  It seems whenever a show doesn't get the ratings a network wants, a network will move the show to another night and timeslot in the hope of achieving better ratings.  It VERY rarely works, and sadly Arrested Development is another example of this.  

I can't blame Fox for pulling the plug.  After all, they tried their hardest to promote the show.  I remember Sunday nights watching the Simpsons and during the commercials the people at Fox REALLY wanted viewers to tune in.  The writers of the show should be proud that Fox tried very hard to keep it on the air.  It's just unfortunate people didn't want to watch it.  I still believe if more people were willing to pay attention to the characters on the show and made a solid effort to get involved in the twisted storylines instead of assuming the show should be like a regular laugh track comedy, Arrested Development would be around today.  

As it stands, 53 episodes are all we have of this great show.  Honestly, it's not enough, but will have to do.  

Do we really NEED anymore laugh track comedies?  Aren't there more than enough of them on the air now?  Most of these shows people won't even recognize when they hear the name of them because there's so many.  Most comedies that feature a laughing audience are exactly the same, and they blend together.  One plainly obvious joke after another.  I'm bored just thinking about it.  We've reached a time when television has changed with all sorts of reality shows and whatnot, and changing the format of the comedy genre to a direction similar to Arrested Development is the right move, in my opinion.  The times need to change.  

People make a big deal about Arrested Development because there's really NOTHING else like it on television.  That's why the show deserves all the 5-star ratings it has received here on amazon.  People wouldn't be praising the show so much if there wasn't a good reason for it.  Trust me, there's a reason for all the positive reviews.  Buy one of the DVD season sets, pop a bag of popcorn in the microwave, watch the show *carefully* and experience the joy so many people are raving about. 
