
Brilliant is an often overworked phrase, but in the case of *Hamlet* starring Mel Gibson, the word cannot be used enough.  For brevity's sake, I will save Zeffirelli's cudos for another time and place except to say that he has done a good thing.  This review is for Chris Devore and his beautiful working and dramturgy of the more than difficult Shakespeare script.  Devore somehow makes it better.  Were he in London, late 1500's, he would have been a collaborator, making Will's work the pearl it is today.  My only plea is that, at some date, we will get to see Gibson give the advice to the players which was omitted so that other pieces could be spared.

This may have been Glenn Close's best work.  This is not a complaint, but rather a sign that anyting else she may have or has done cannot be any better than this wonderful, small role.  Ophelia (Close) has an important commentary that must be heard in order for the play to work - Will was no fool - and it needs a Close to do it.

Alan Bates has been a staple of English theatre and screen and has delivered many fine parts (such as Gabriel Oaks in *Far From the Madding Crowd*, 1967).  As Claudius, the regicide and brother of Hamlet, Senior, Bates makes you believe that his reign could have been noble except for that one small cancer, that flaw in his character - very clintonian and very believable.

I have wanted to kick Ian Holm's ever since Ash hurt Ripley in *Alien*, 1979.  I have to keep reminding myself that he really is that believable and that I really don't hate him, It's the character he has created so well.  His body of work is repleat with characters of such believability that you forget his name - IAN HOLM - until he does it again, the next time, in the next movie.  If films were strictly Hasidic, Holm's version of Polonius would be Kosher.  There is not one piece of ham in his entire performance. It is worth the purchase of the DVD just to see him act.

Everyone is good in the movie and there is not time to talk about all of them.  But a note to those whose noses are airbourne and won't tolerate anyone but Olivier as Hamlet.  There are several uneven performances in his excellent movie.  There are no uneven performances in this piece.

Finally, we come to the mad prince of Denmark.  It is most astonishing that I watched this epic again after Mel's dark night of the troll, thrashing about in complete insanity, arguably brought on by hard likker, frustration, and stupidity.  Yet with all said, Gibson IS the essential Hamlet.  You will find no other actor who delivers the goods the way the Cruiser from the Boozer does.

You know this is true, not just by watching the exquisite performance on the DVD, but by Gibson's own marvelling at what was accomplished, not because of some actor's raison d'etre, but rather by the actor's very ability to understand that he is dealing with things that go beyond the ken of normal humans.  IS Hamlet crazy, or crazy like a fox?  And when is he crazy we get to hear Mel say in the devastating interview he made for the DVD release many years gone by.

So, enough from me.

If you want to see the best Hamlet ever, buy this DVD and feast.

- Dick Anderso
