
Harvey Milk was the elected supervisor of District 6 in San Francisco when he was murdered--along with Mayor George Moscone on November 27, 1978, by fellow supervisor, Dan White (who later claimed the infamous "Twinkie defense"). The film "The Times of Harvey Milk" firmly places the murder of Milk, a gay politician, into the politically significant context of the times. The crime, the verdict, and the sentence served were all shocking. This film tells the story behind the headlines. 

Milk was a stockbroker on the East Coast, when he decided to pull up roots and head for San Francisco. He opened a camera shop on Castro Street and quickly earned the name of "Mayor of Castro Street" for his enthusiastic community involvement. His interest led to several failed attempts to run for city office, but when the city's elections ran by district--rather than citywide--Milk became the newly elected supervisor for the Sixth District. Milk's enthusiasm and talent for politics thrived in city hall. 

The film includes photographs, newsreel footage, and many interviews with those who crossed Milk's path in a professional or personal capacity. Milk was passionate about public transportation, rent control, and the rights of seniors and gays. White, on the other hand, found San Francisco's Gay Day "obscene." Eerily, there are several photos of Milk that also include his killer--clean cut, ex-fireman and family man, Supervisor Dan White. The film explores the flavour of the times--San Francisco was becoming a gay Mecca, and there were some people who couldn't adjust to that fact. Senator John Briggs, who called San Francisco "the moral garbage dump of the nation" was fighting to get a proposition put on the ballot that would allow gay teachers to be fired. Milk fought this ballot tooth and nail, and it failed. 

The film "The Times of Harvey Milk" includes two discs. One disc contains the film, and the other disc is packed with extra features--including coverage of the film's premiere in Castro Street, a Dan White update, 1st and 25th anniversary events of the crime, director's commentary, the Academy Awards 1985, and a photo gallery. For those of us who remember the headlines, "The Times of Harvey Milk" is a fascinating documentary that places the crime firmly in the context of its time--displacedhuma
