
This documentary gives a brief introduction to Al-Jazeera, which, if you didn't know already, is the main arab language newschannel. It is a source which has won a great deal of respect in the arab world for it's willingness to go where other, stated-owned and controlled arab networks won't tread. In this sense it is more than a mere arab CNN in that it stands out more in the general landscape of arab media.

The filmmakers here interview Al-Jazeera personel, as well as some american journalists, and the american official which liases with Al-Jazeera for Centcom, the american Central Command in the present Irak war (which happens to be 30 miles from Al Jazeera headquarters). It covers the timeline from just before the war, to just after Bush anounced main millitary operations to be over. 

By striving to be neutral, the documentary allows you to see how Al-Jazeera see themselves and how they conceive their mission in the world. They are very disappointed in the United States, but adhere strongly to its values. 

Also interesting is how being "on the arab side" gives them a very different perspective from western media in spite of the fact that they clearly espouse its values, like when they are angered by Pentagon protests at their having showed images of US prisoners, when western media routinely show Iraki POWs.

An unexpected insight the documentary affords you is that it lets you see just how incompetent millitary media management can be. The american liaison doesn't speak a word of arabic in spite of being assigned by his goverment to the most important arab news source, and as if that weren't enough, he is barely articulate in english and clearly doesn't know anything about the local context and history. Another instance of bungled media operations is when centcom tells journalists about the deck of cards with the most wanted iraki officials, but doesn't have the foresight to have some to give to journalists, irritating the very people they are trying to win over.

All in all it's a compelling watch which gives you a good look into the producers of news in the west and arab worlds. It gets four stars rather than five because of it's sometimes amateurish handling of flow, which makes it at times a bit unfocused
