
More than "male" and "female". More than your view or her view or my view or any one person's view of what makes "male" and what makes "female" and everything in between. Sexuality (gay, straight, bi, asexual, etc) is different than gender (male/female) and can have nothing and yet sometimes everything to do with the other.

There are gay men and straight me and bisexual men, too. Whatever they identify as has no impact on whether they are also transsexual and seek re-assignment into a body that fits them more. It's not some sick fetish or crazy delusion. Surgery, hormones, these are RISKY! And they would not be undertaken unless other options HAD been explored and found unable to cease the ache inside.

Gender Identity Disorder (GID) is real. Transition (the process of taking hormones, living as the preferred gender in all things, surgery, etc) is not a CURE but it can make life bearable.

And I think it's funny that still male to female transsexuals are regarded more often as "real" and the female to male transsexuals are ignored. 

Raci has known she was trans it appears most of her life. She started taking hormones while she was still in what should have been her male puberty. So, of COURSE she looks "more feminine" but that doesn't make her any more or less of a "real woman" than the other MTF, Gabbie. Gabbie is a lesbian while Raci is straight. See how this works? Gabbie likes women, Raci likes men. It has nothing to do with one being "right" and one being "wrong".

There is a world of difference between a man relating to a woman and a woman relating to a woman. Just as a man relating to a man vs. a man relating to a woman. And it's not all sexual. It is entirely plausible that a man would transition into a woman and still be attracted to women. Hello, the gender changed, not who they were attracted to! 

I'm just so tired of seeing so many people picking apart transsexuals. We are not here for your amusement. We are not here to be some star in your porn show. We are real. And these kids do an amazing job showing that. But I see that the majority of reviewers are more wound up over the "sick fetishes" and one MTF being more female convincing than the other. 

I would love to see the same folks who brought us this (a more emotional struggle) to also do one documenting the physical changes that happen and how FTMs, in particular, struggle with the emotional effects of T.

- Wil
