
One of the many hit TV shows inextricably linked to the 1980's is The A-Team, an action series with plenty of bombs, machine guns, and bazookas - where miraculously no one ever seems to die! Short for "Alpha Team," The A-Team is a Vietnam-era crack commando unit wrongfully accused of robbing the Bank of Hanoi. Having escaped from a maximum security prison, the four man team survives in the anonymity of the Los Angeles underground. And with the government still hot on their trail, they're forced to work as soldiers of fortune, providing aid and assistance to the helpless victims of various injustices... 

The A-Team is led by cigar aficionado Col. John "Hannibal" Smith (George Peppard), a wise-cracking officer who always has a plan in the works. Hannibal is flanked by Lt. Templeton "Faceman" Peck (Dirk Benedict), the consummate ladies' man; Sgt. Bosco "B.A." Baracus (Mr. T), a gold-drenched muscleman afraid of flying; and Captain H.M "Howling Mad" Murdock, a lanky mental case who nevertheless carries out his missions with flawless precision. Together, they travel the country in B.A.'s trademark black van, fighting for justice and attempting to elude the clutches of the nefarious Colonel Decker (Lance LeGault) who wants nothing more in life than to capture The A-Team... 

The A-Team (Season 1) DVD features a number of action-packed episodes including the season premiere "Mexican Slayride" in which journalist Amy Allen sets out to prove the existence of The A-Team and its various good deeds. But when a fellow reporter is kidnapped by Mexican renegades, Amy gets a firsthand look at The A-Team's handiwork when she hires them to rescue her friend... Other notable episodes from Season 1 include "Holiday in the Hills" in which, following a plane crash, The A-Team is forced to do battle with a group of mountain men, and "One More Time" in which the U.S. government itself hires The A-Team to rescue a general and his daughter from South American guerillas...

Below is a list of episodes included on The A-Team (Season 1) DVD:

Episode 1 (Mexican Slayride: Part 1) 
Episode 2 (Mexican Slayride: Part 2) 
Episode 3 (Children of Jamestown) 
Episode 4 (Pros and Cons) 
Episode 5 (A Small and Deadly War) 
Episode 6 (Black Day at Bad Rock) 
Episode 7 (The Rabbit Who Ate Las Vegas) 
Episode 8 (The Out-of-Towners) 
Episode 9 (Holiday in the Hills) 
Episode 10 (West Coast Turnaround) 
Episode 11 (One More Time) 
Episode 12 (Till Death Do Us Part) 
Episode 13 (The Beast from the Belly of a Boeing) 
Episode 14 (A Nice Place to Visit) 

The DVD Repor
