
Although I enjoy Pilates and yoga, I need a good workout that makes me sweat.  Boxing and martial arts classes are great for that purpose.  But there are times where I prefer to feel the burn at home.  To that end, one of the best cardio/strength DVD workouts I've found is "Crunch: Boot Camp Training."  

The workout runs for about 30 minutes, which is great for those days where I want a shorter (but still effective) one.  It's short because exercises are combined together in order to minimize time and maximize benefit.  For example, three-to-ten pound hand weights are used to work the upper body while doing squats and lunges.  Abs and obliques are worked on the floor with different types of crunches, and during standing cardio work by side knee lifts.  Of course, a boot camp workout would be incomplete without pushups - there are three sets, each with a different emphasis to shake things up (and the lower body is worked in as well).  A cooldown/stretch session concludes the proceedings.

As for the instructor, Susan Hitzmann is one of the best I've seen on a DVD workout.  She has an infectious enthusiasm that challenges and encourages at the same time.  She calls well, using a clear and authoritative voice.  I also enjoyed the chemistry between her and the rest of the class.  This is one of the few DVD workouts where I can identify with the assistants, because they look like they are actually working out.  They moan, groan, and laugh like real people, and plastic smiles are kept to a minimum.  Finally, the generic accompanying music complements the workout without overwhelming it.

There are two caveats for "Crunch: Boot Camp Training."  First, it might be hard on someone with sensitive knees because there are a lot of squats and forward lunges.  I had an ACL recon years ago, so I usually do backward lunges in place of the forward ones (the workout also features backward lunges).  Also, the routine's fast pace and combinations may confuse or wear out beginners.  But easier variations are demonstrated by a woman on the instructor's left side, so this is a workout you can grow into.  Even so, if your body takes time to get limber due to age or previous injury, you may want to warm up on your own beforehand.  

"Crunch: Boot Camp Training" is an excellent boot camp-style home workout.  I own a large number of exercise DVDs, and this one's on my go-to stack.  Highly recommended
