
What do I think of when someone says "Disney!"? Hmmm...kiddy films, girly stuff, princess(groan, we don't need more of that!), dreams come true and...cheesy?
Yep, all of the things above are in Ice Princess, with some fresh twists. With the "mean rival" changed to "nice rival", and add "with hard work" after "dreams come true". I mean, look at Sleeping Beauty and Cinderella, what did they do to make their dreams come true, which is a pathetic one, to marry a prince? One had a 100-year beauty sleep and the other had a fairy-godmother to make her a nice dress with a flick of the wand! Casey Carlyle was totally different. I agree with people, that it's impossible that she can become that good in such a short period of time, which is one of the reasons I give this film a 4 and not a 5. But it's an improvement.
The cutting of the skating scenes are beautifully done, and while people on IMDB say that they're to showy, it is true, but aww, come on, this is a movie, not a real competition, and everybody likes some nice ice-skating in movies.
The acting is great, especially Michelle Trachtenberg and Hayden Panettiere. Michelle's acting is really good, and you can see the gradual transformation from geeky to graceful in her movements. Hayden Panettiere's acting is also good, but it's a pity that her character is somewhat bland and "Mary-Sue"ish. "Mary-Sue"ish would mean that she's almost perfect. She's smart, good at sports and extremely popular also. It is very unfair, because on the page I'm writing this review on, it says "Ice Princess (Widescreen Edition)~JOAN CUSACK. I know she and Kim Catrall or the ones with fame, and don't mistake me, the acting IS good, but Casey and Gen completely steals the stage, and in the place of Joan Cusack, it should be the names of those two.
The soundtrack is wonderful, especially Reachin' for Heaven and No One. Delicious songs! And Reachin' for Heaven is currently competing with forty something other songs for a place in the 78th Oscar Nominations List. Good luck
