
Based upon director and writer Oliver Stone's own experiences in Vietnam, PLATOON was the first major motion picture about that war directed by a veteran from that conflict.  The movie revolves around a young American soldier, Pvt. Chris Taylor (a young Charlie Sheen) and the platoon he lives and fights with during his tour of duty.  The battle sequences are very gritty, graphic, and realistic.  Taylor serves under the direct leadership of Sgt. Elias Grodin (Willem Dafoe), but both men are under the command of Staff Sgt. Bob Barnes (Tom Berenger). Grodin and Barnes have two completely different views of leadership and opposing worldviews.  Grodin represents everything that is good and noble and worth fighting for in the conflict, while Barnes represents all the evil and ugliness of the war.  At its core then, PLATOON is a movie about the internal war for one soldier's soul between good and evil.  Though Stone based the film upon his own experiences, there are scenes that have been embellished and the view Stone presents is only one view of the war--see the film WE WERE SOLDIERS for the opposite view as presented by Stone in PLATOON.

Despite the negative outlook upon life, the military, and the Vietnam War, PLATOON is probably Oliver Stone's best movie to date.  Stone's direction of the film is brilliant from the two-week boot camp the actors endured before principal filming, to the fine details such as the color of the wrapping paper on the cigarettes, to filming in sequence, to recognizing the talent of Johnny Depp, Stone illustrated in PLATOON was that he was a great director and one to be reckoned with.  The film contains fine performances: Tom Berenger, Willem Dafoe, Charlie Sheen, Forest Whitaker, Francesco Quinn, John C. McGinley, and Johnny Depp all give powerful portrayals that ground the movie in humanity, despite the deep metaphysical connotations.  PLATOON won the 1986 Oscar for Best Picture, Stone won the Best Director Oscar, and also received a nomination for Best Original Screenplay.

I was surprised and found that I enjoyed PLATOON, though there were several parts of the film that I found myself aghast.  I've never been in battle myself, but I do know that war is hell.  Nevertheless, I cannot bring myself to agree with the film's negative worldview and ultimately the loss of one's soul to evil.  Despite this, there are many positive things within the movie.  This is a movie that any film buff should see and people who enjoy war movies might enjoy it as well (though they might prefer something more hopeful such as SAVING PRIVATER RYAN or WE WERE SOLDIERS)
