
Given that pornography is a multi-jillion-dollar-a-year business, it's sort of surprising that it hasn't received the cinematic treatment more often, but Boogie Nights provides it with the sort of skewed, darkly comic treatment that it almost certainly deserves, and becomes a certifiable classic in the process.  Following the story of Eddie Adams, a simple-minded, almost impossibly well-endowed teenager from suburban California who achieves porn stardom as Dirk Diggler before turning 20, Boogie Nights is both a time-tested star-is-born-and-almost-blows-it-all story and a loving tribute to a time and place that will probably never be replicated and the individuals who made it what it was.  

Paul Thomas Anderson's directing is as excessive and stylish as you'd expect from a movie centered on the porno industry, with Anderson pulling out every trick in the book--long tracking shots, underwater closeups, montages, movie-within-a-movie views, and some moments that approach stream-of-consciousness (Dirk's vision of his professional name literally exploding off a neon sign being a prominent example).  Naturally, Anderson also loads the movie up with period details, right down to the Farah Fawcett poster in teenage Dirk's room, the platform shoes, and the obligatory disco sequences.  Its visual flair aside, though, Boogie Nights is also the sort of insanely quotable, watch-it-until-you've-memorized-it movie that seemed to come out in droves in the nineties (Trainspotting, Fargo, Goodfellas, Swingers, True Romance, etc. etc. etc.) but has been in disturbingly short supply this decade.  This movie simply seems to have everything you can think of going for it, especially its murderer's row of a cast--Burt Reynolds (Jack Horner), Don Cheadle (Buck Swope), John C. Reilly (Reed Rothchild), Julianne Moore (Amber Waves), William H. Macy (Little Bill), Luis Guzman (Maurice Rodriguez), Tom Jane (Todd Parker), Philip Baker Hall (Floyd Gondolli), Philip Seymour Hoffman (Scotty Jay), and Alfred Molina (Rahad Jackson) all figure prominently--and even Wahlberg (Dirk himself) and Heather Graham (Rollergirl) have roles that are perfectly suited to their relative limitations as actors.  

That said, what really gives the movie its resonance is the obvious sympathy with which it treats its characters, who are generally easy to laugh at but equally easy to like.  The main characters almost entirely have hopes, aspirations, and attachments beyond the rather closed world of their profession--Jack's desire to be a serious filmmaker; Dirk's ridiculous pseudo-Karate and Reed's equally ridiculous poetry; Buck's goal of opening his own stereo store; Amber's attempts to get back in touch with her son, which she blatantly compensates for by mothering her co-stars--helping us see them as fleshed-out characters, not just plot devices in the story.  

Since there isn't really a plot to speak of, the movie is told as a series of episodes, Goodfellas-style, with several extended pieces--the pool party at Jack's House where Eddie/Dirk gets introduced to the whole crew; the New Year's Eve party celebrating the start of the '80's; the fake drug deal gone bad at a Rahad's house--serving to turn the narrative in new directions.  This last set piece--when Dirk, Reed, and Todd head over to Rahad's house to sell him some baking soda disguised as cocaine and it quickly degenerates into a laughably misguided robbery attempt--deserves special mention, as it's easily one of the most fascinating single scenes in recent film memory.  It starts off almost surreal, with a skinny Chinese guy walking around randomly lighting firecrackers and Rahad (clad only in underwear, a bathrobe and slippers) discoursing semi-coherently as he sings along to not-so-classic 80's songs on a mixtape.  From there it just gets progressively darker and tenser, with the lighting, acting, and direction all perfectly serving to ratchet up the feeling of desperation and horror as Todd kicks his ill-conceived robbery plot into motion and things spin way out of control.  Molina's over-the-top performance, more than anything else, makes the scene, as he turns Rahad into a manic ball of drug-fuelled energy and, later, a shotgun-toting avenging angel determined to take his revenge.  I wouldn't say Molina turns in the best performance I've ever seen in a movie, but it it probably the best performance I've seen from someone who only got one scene in the whole movie.

The '80's are, of course, the hangover from the joys of the previous decade, as the emergence of video downgrades the quality of the product, cocaine suddenly becomes addictive, and Dirk starts to become too big for his britches in more ways than one.  Fittingly, as the disco era gives way to tougher times in the eighties, the movie takes a darker turn, becoming grittier, more downcast and a lot more violent, but no less compelling.  All the unbridled energy and creativity of the first half is still present, just in a decidedly less sunny form.  Even when people are getting beaten up and shot left and right, the movie's pedal-to-the-metal pacing makes it all but impossible to look away.  Well, except maybe for the notorious money shot at the end, but by then I for one didn't care.





