
The much-celebrated fourth season of NBC's long-running medical drama, ER, is the recipient of two 1997-1998 Emmy awards, three 1997-1998 Screen Actors Guild awards, and one 1997-1998 Golden Globe award. 

Fans of the show will be treated to roughly 16 hours chock full of trauma intertwined with personal and professional relationship trials between the doctors, nurses, support staff, and patients. The unrated six-disc set includes 22 episodes, Spanish and French language subtitles, and numerous special features including outpatient outtakes, a "Cutups" gag reel, "Anatomy of an Ambush", and the "Ambush live post-show". Outpatient outtakes allow viewers to watch deleted scenes straight from the cutting room floor, while the "Ambush" special features include analysis and discussion of the live episode as well as the subsequent celebration among the cast and crew.

The fourth season is ripe with talented and beautiful actors - some of the most adored cast members in ER history. The primary cast includes returning favorites George Clooney (Dr. Doug Ross), Anthony Edwards (Dr. Mark Greene), Noah Wyle (Dr. John Carter), Julianna Margulies (Nurse Carol Hathaway), Gloria Reuben (P.A. Jeanie Boulet), Eriq LaSalle (Dr. Peter Benton), Laura Innes (Dr. Kerry Weaver), and Maria Bello (Dr. Anna Del Amico). Also returning are Paul McCrane (Dr. Romano), William H. Macy (Dr. Morgenstern), and John Aylward (Dr. Anspaugh). 

New stars to the ER this season include Alex Kingston (Dr. Corday), Mariska Hargitay (Cynthia Hooper), and Yvette Freeman (Nurse Adams). Recurring and special guest stars include Lisa Nicole Carson, Telma Hopkins, Dan Hedaya, CCH Pounder, Chad Lowe, Jorja Fox, Alan Alda, Harold Perrineau Jr.

This season also plays host to intense storylines, and, of course, emergencies. The DVD set begins with the legendary "Ambush" episode-ER's live season opener. Additional ighlights of the season include:
Dr. Greene dealing with the aftereffects of his mugging, his estranged family, and his wavering feelings for Hooper;
Dr. Ross losing his father, and potentially his fianc and career;
Physician Assistant Boulet dealing with HIV and the stigma associated with it;
Benton's relationships with his newborn son, his girlfriend Carla, and his budding relationship with Dr. Corday;
The negative impact Synergix (an ER management firm) has on the lives of the staff;
Carter trying to cope with his drug addicted cousin and personal issues with the remainder of his family;
And much more!

The fourth season ER DVD is a must have for die hard ER fans, as well as for anyone who just loves a well-written, well-established drama.
