
It is said that suffering develops character. Surely, when photographer Zana Briski went on a photography pilgrimage to the red light district in Sonagchi, Calcutta, in India, she discovered more character, and in smaller shape and size, then she might have imagined. Peering through a lens into the darkest shadows of life - into the world of prostitution - to capture the images the world wishes not to see, not, at least, from this angle of truth, she saw between the life-battered women... their children.  

When we think of brothels, however we might think of them, how many think of children? Whether we think of these places and their inhabitants as figures of perversity, embodiments of lust, or the tragic painted clowns of the joke that is humanity, it is probably more true than not that these women are rarely seen as, well, women. They are perhaps at best merely meat, merely body parts, to be used and abused and then tossed aside. What Zana Briski's photo lens reveals is that these are indeed women, human beings, and, for better or for worse, also mothers, daughters, wives, sisters. We see in this montage of photos and film combined, women who are deformed by the ugliness inside. They are broken, they are stunningly and fiercely angry at the world that has so betrayed them, yet they also have their moments of hope and tenderness.

All of this, and more, falls upon the heads of their children. Weaving between these women are their little ones, boys and girls who grow up around the perversities of lust and abuse. What might such children be like? This is the sharp focus of Briski's lens. 

Perhaps we need to look at ugliness to see beauty in contrast. The faces and spirits of these children contain both. They have in them the despair of those forgotten and betrayed by the world. Society all around them refuses them a place outside the red light district. They are already banned from normalcy. They have been witness to humans at their worst, and no one outside wishes to bear the weight of such witness. Yet they will not be silenced, and if we do not wish to hear them speak, then Briski has given them cameras to let them capture their worlds, inside and out, and bring these images to us. 

What these children capture on film is nothing less than breathtaking. They miss nothing. Their intense talent and power of seeing discovered, this film also shows us how Briski works to bring this artistic discovery to the world, meanwhile also fighting to give these children a chance, slim as it is, to a life of normalcy. Key to this is education, yet as she soon learns, no school in Calcutta wishes to enroll children born into brothels. At last and with determined persistence, she does find one, and a portal into life beyond opens for some of the children. Their photos, too, are put on exhibit, available also now in book format. 

Some are saved, some are pulled back into the dark. The individual stories of these tiny photographers are stories that must be witnessed, heard and seen, so that they know: everyone matters. Even in the darkest shadows, we refuse to be blind to them any longer
