
The documentary, "Guerrilla--The Taking of Patty Hearst" is a good, solid look at the bizarre story behind the Symbionese Liberation Army (the SLA)--how the SLA formed, what actions/crimes they committed, and how the group was finally apprehended. The film examines the political climate in 1970s America, and how disillusionment with government led to the formation of the revolutionary SLA. Political rhetoric aside, the SLA careened through California on a crime spree that involved the murder of two people and even descended into the pettiness of shoplifting a pair of socks. But more than just an investigation into the events surrounding the SLA, filmmaker Michael Stone raises some interesting philosophical questions about crime and punishment. 

Using interviews with surviving SLA members Russ Little and Michael Bortin--as well as archival news footage of the times, the documentary examines how the SLA--led by escaped criminal DeFreeze Cinque--zoomed into the headlines after the 1974 kidnapping of Patty Hearst, daughter of William Randolph Hearst. Several members of the SLA were Berkeley students--including Emily Harris--who worked in the UC Berkeley's registrar's office. With Patty Hearst as a hostage, the SLA began making demands for food distribution for poor communities, but lest one imagines that the SLA members were driven by egalitarian motives, it must be remembered that the SLA financed their lifestyle by robbing banks. During the robbing of a bank in Carmichael, customer Myna Opsahl was shot in the stomach by a shotgun blast and left there to die.

No doubt the most shocking aspect in the history of the SLA was Patty Hearst's transformation from kidnap victim to the gun-toting 'Tania' (renamed for an old girlfriend of Che Guevara) who participated in several bank robberies. The documentary includes televised pleas from Hearst's parents for Patty's safety, audiotapes from Patty announcing that she's joined the group, as well as clips of Patty's former fiance, Stephen Weed. Tim Findley--a SF Chronicle reporter who covered this bizarre case--also appears adding his insightful comments. The kidnapping of Patty Hearst and her subsequent brainwashing/conversion to the SLA remains disturbing, and certainly raises many philosophical questions. Was she just an innocent kidnapping victim, or was she young and impressionable enough to be influenced by the SLA's theories on class war? Did the fact that the Hearst family is rich and powerful have any bearing on their daughter's Presidential pardon? Well watch the documentary and decide for yourself. 

There's so much to be learned from watching a documentary that explores in depth an old news item that still remains locked in the archives of one's memory. DVD extras include comments by the director Michael Stone, the audiotapes by Patty Hearst, footage of the Hibernia bank robbery, and segments of court hearings between SLA members and the son of murder victim Myna Opsahl. These speeches from the former SLA members--as they try to explain and justify the murder of Opsahl--serve as a reminder of the irrevocable damage caused by taking a life--displacedhuma
