
His words to the jury, a petition for strength for them against great odds, for himself against greater odds, for a system sometimes blind to justice, and for the victim of negligence who has no voice, puts a lump in your throat today 25 years after the release of 'The Verdict.'

TV bytes and news reports of lawyers' greed today have surpassed the image of scoundrels as nearly all of us now just leave them to their money-grubbing best. And the courage and brilliance of "Brown v. Board" and "Heart of Atlanta" exemplifying courageous men and women doing what is best fade into a distant past. But once in while a movie ('Mockingbird') comes along and moves powerfully to recall what it was that attracted us to the beauty of this ancient profession: to do what is right, or even better, to do what is right against great odds.

Frank Galvin, drunk, ambulance chaser, liar, failure, had that dream once but a mistake, an error of judgemnt, a naive trust in loyalty that was gravely misplaced led him to where he is now, sucking on breath mints and bourbon, handing out cards, working for booze money.

His old friend Jack Warden handed him a case, a no-brainer, a lovely Irish girl who went into labor and came out brain dead. The Defendants? A squeaky clean, Chaired, lauded, published and handsome OBGYN and  . . . . the Diocese of Boston. And Frank's going to cave. Hell. It's the eve of trial and he's been drunk through the 24 months of discovery. And then he prepares for the Settlement Conference with the Dfense Lawyer, James Mason (just positively brilliant) and goes to the girls hospital room where she is machine fed and takes photos. But a funny thing happens. Lke Marcellus (Burton) winning the Robe in the lottery at the foot of the cross or a drunk at his first AA meeting, Frank's not sure but something's different. And he begins to wonder if maybe this time he won't cave.

Great, morbid, wry, ironic, gallows humor. Warden says after the Settlement Conference, "whadja' think of (Mason)?" Galvin: He's good. Warden: Good? He's the  [. . . . .] Prince of Darkness. 

A cast that you have heard of and seen a thousand times and some that you would never see again all working together to bring you a blue collar story of the good thief. I don't know that there is a better trial movie.

People say that Newman lost but wasn't robbed for the Oscar because Ben Kingley was so wonderful in Ghandi.

He was robbed. 5 stars. Larry Scantlebury  
