
samurai champloo has been a great series, and this third dvd has kept that tradition. though the last episode was weak, as most recap episodes are, the other three episodes made up for it, and then some. around the time this came out, fans of the series were starting to buy the dvd's more due to the shortage of episodes on adult swim, as the last episode on this dvd is as far as adult swim would broadcast(they did start to broadcast more shortly after dvd six). below are my ratings for this dvd and it's episodes.


episode nine: beatbox bandits- this episode, though not very good, still has some funny scenes and some action. mugen jin and fuu are caught trying to pass through a checkpoint with counterfiet passes. the checkpoint officials find out that they did not make the forgeries, and cut a deal. mugen is sent to do one of their croked errands. will mugen stay true to his companions? watch and find out.
i rate this episode a 5/10, simply because it lacked action and plot, plus the man telling the story is looking back thirty years to when the episode occured. i don't know, maybe it's the thought of jin mugen and fuu being old, but i don't dig the old man looking that far back.

episode ten: lethal lunacy- one of my favorite, if not my all time favorite, SC episodes! this episode kicks anus in every way possible! i dont want to reveal to much of the story line, but i reccomend watching this episode! even if this dvd just had this episode and was still full price, i would still buy it!
i rate this episode a -/-, or infinite. if you really want stars, it is 10/10, though i find that underappreciating the episode to give it a finite rating

episode eleven: gamblers and gallentry- jin falls in love with a depressed woman who has been forced to work in a whore-house to pay off her husbands debt. still a good episode, but not the best. lots of great humor.
i rate this episode 7/10.

episode twelve: the disorder diaries- recap episode. jin and mugen read fuu's diary while she takes a bath. this episode has a lot of funny dialogue, but that's the only thing it has working for it.
i rate this episode 3/10

well, that's it for this review. check out my next review on volume four of samurai champloo.
i hope this review helped.
peace
