
This is a very emotional film.  It induces emotion in the viewer, and for that I give it five stars.  I'm more interested in constructive criticism than in praise, so even though I think it is an excellent film, I will just focus on what I think is wrong with it.

One problem is that Blanche DuBois is simply too pretty for the role.  We don't understand, on a gut level, why this beautiful girl would worry about hiding behind dim lighting.  The script makes it clear that she is supposed to look "old", and yet she doesn't.  That's a fault of the film.  It makes her final passionate scene with Karl Malden incomprehensible.  He holds her up to the light, she looks very pretty, and yet we are supposed to believe that she looks terrible in bright light.  For that I blame the director, Elia Kazan.  What in God's name could he have been thinking of, and why did he mess up so badly on that important detail?

Another important fault of this film is that Stanley Kowalski's attack on Blanche isn't set up properly.  Are we just supposed to believe that he is an animal, and chalk it up to that?  Sorry, not good enough.  We should have seen it coming.  Again, another big mess-up by Kazan.  When the script has the characters doing something that doesn't ring true, there's a problem.  We needed to see that attack being led up to.  We needed to think "Oh my god, I know what he is about to do."

Stanley Kowalski is actually the good guy throughout most of the movie.  All of a sudden it turns.  It's incomprehensible.  Somewhere between the writing, directing, and acting, somebody dropped the ball somewhere.  The Stanley Kowalski who attacks Blanche is not the same man who appears earlier in the film.  He's not an "animal".  He's not set up that way for us. Blanche is the snob, and Stanley is okay, but that is turned on its head at the end.

Insanity is a nice little copout.  We can make our actors do anything, and just say okay, they went nuts.  Very touching, but not very realistic.  How does someone go insane?  What stages do they go through?  Blanche's descent into insanity, into an inability to tell reality from fantasy, should have been more realistic, more researched, more consistent with the way it actually happens.  It does happen to people, people who are extremely bipolar, people who are schizophrenic.  More research should have been done, to show what the descent into insanity actually does look like.

I have high standards, but that's a good thing, I think.  Still, I've given this film five stars
