
"The Good Earth" must be considered a "milestone movie." As yet, there is no DVD  but one packed with out-takes about the making of this film would be especially welcome. There was no Oscar given for outstanding visual effects until 1939; otherwise, "The Good Earth" would have 'taken home' that award! 

The lovely Luise Ranier did  win "Best Actress" award. The 1937 movie was based on Pearl Buck's novel that won the Pulitzer Prize in 1932. Interest in "The Good Earth" was revived in Fall 2004 when it was selected for "Oprah's Book Club".   Perhaps women's rights advocates should also give it a boost?

The story is about China in the 1900s.  A simple farmer, Wang Lung, is 'given' (by his father) the slave O-Lan, for his bride.  I do not remember much from childhood about this film, but I definitely do not recall Paul Muni having such a mouthful of teeth! (special effecrs?!) Luise Ranier  had won an Oscar the previous year for her role in the "Ziegfield Follies" -- what a contrast!  Here she is the completely docile, loyal wife; as someone wrote, she was bound to her husband in "eternal servitude."  And her devotion was betrayed.  Partly through the machinations of "Uncle".  At every time of crisis in the story along comes (GROAN!) the crafty, manipulatve uncle (Walter Connolly) who whines A wheedles - - inserting humor (?) into the script and at the same time destroying family amity. 

From the Internet Movie Database are the prophetic words of former slave O-Lan:  "When I go back in that house, it will be with my son in my arms. I'll have a red coat on him... and red flower trousers... and a hat with a gilded Buddha and tiger-faced shoes, and I'll go into the kitchen where I spent my days as a slave and into the great hall where the old mistress sits with her pipe, and I'll show myself and my son to all of them."  (Smiles, contented)
Wang Lung:  "Well... Now, I... I haven't heard you speak so many words since you came to this house." 

Isn't the photography impressive for having been shot nearly seventy years ago? I found the quality of framed camera shots surprising A the production of many scenes quite amazing.  READ  Susan Wong's  wonderfully perceptive review on amazon.com.

Today's movie-goers don't seem to care about "true life" documentation in films,  but animation couldn't convince as the 1930s true-life locusts do! That tired word "awesome" truly fits this vintage film:  the choking drought A famine, the beautiful  'condensed' story of harvesting when they must survive the fury of a storm,  and the terrifying  scenes of revolutionary uprisings.

REVIEWER mcHAIKU  HAILS THIS FILM, and others that made an impact on my childhood!
