
"The Medium" instantly became my favorite show on television in 2005.  I usually am fascinated by shows with elements of the paranormal, which tuned me in.  However, it is the realism of the family relationship that is most fascinating.  Patricia Arquette who was in "Ed Wood" with Johnny Depp plays Alison DuBois.  Her Emmy win for Best Actress in a drama attests to her standing within the industry, but the on-screen chemistry with Jake Weber who was in "Meet Joe Black" and plays her husband Joe is riveting.  They fight, spat, try to mask conflict in front of their kids, juggle an impossible number of real-life tasks, and have layers of humor and romance that make this seem like a real family that loves each other and deals with the unusual circumstances of Alison's psychic ability.  I found after watching the initial show that when the reruns would show, I still wanted to watch them over episodes of CSI Miami that I had not seen.   When I bought the DVD, I was hoping there might have been an episode I'd missed, but I'd seen them all between NBC A Lifetime reruns several times.  I'm impressed by how entrancing each episode is and the quality of the writing.  Alison's dreams are like clues that she struggles to fit together.  What impresses me about Alison is that she sincerely struggles to do the right thing.  In a world of violence, it's often hard to be clear which way the moral compass points.  In the episode "In Sickness A Adultery" her tip places her on the witness stand with an unethical hostile prosecutor that seeks to embarrass her.  As she comes back that he cheated to pass his law exams and is cheating on his wife, she finds that her best defense is the truth.  The two older daughters are also jewels.  Maria Lark as Bridget often has my entire family in stitches with her offbeat humor like shouting at her mom who wakes screaming from a bad dream, "Mom, please stop doing that!"  Sofia Vassilieva as the older Aerial keeps the arguments at the breakfast table bouncing.  David Cubitt who plays the reoccurring role of Detective Lee Scanlon also achieves amazing chemistry with Arquette.  Miguel Sandoval as the district attorney Manuel Duvalos has such a focused calmness that he centers the crime portion of the show.  (Perhaps we will sometime see more about his family.)  While it's hard to pick my favorite first season episode, the complex plot of "A Priest, A Doctor A Medium Walk into an Execution Chamber" is a jewel, with the police chasing a ghost who apparently has just committed murder.  The DVD commentaries and introduction to the real-life Alison DuBois really give excellent background for fans of the show.  This is one show that reaches the level of art for me.  Its excellence will make it memorable for a long time A this DVD collection a valuable addition to an entertainment collection.  Bravo
