
While I've always loved Blade Runner, the so-called "Theatrical Cut" was seriously marred by narration that was hilariously blunt in content and awful in its monotone articulation.  Harrison Ford has claimed he did this on purpose with the hope that the whole narration would be scrapped.  But Hollywood, in its infinite vulgarity and congenital contempt for its audience's intelligence and artistic sensitivity, stuck with it anyway, on the assumption that we needed to be spoon-fed with sophomoric incompetence.

Equally stupid, though less damaging in that its effect was more restricted, was the inappropriate sappy ending, which not only contradicted the entire thematic essence of the film but its visual essence as well.  It didn't even make any sense: the earth was supposed to be ravaged by wars.  But Hollywood, with characteristic cowardice, trembled in fear at the thought of actually challenging an audience.  Rick Deckard's fate at the end of the Director's Cut is far more memorable than the nonsense inflicted on theater viewers in 1982, and the subsequent VHS audience.  It reminds me of what Orion Pictures did to George Romero's Monkeyshines. (Since when does a Romero film end with two people grinning at each other like lovesick idiots?)  Or how about the "happy ending" grotesquely grafted onto Terry Gilliam's Brazil?

The extra footage between Deckard and Rachael, while not extensive, enriches the characterizations, however modestly, and the brief dream sequence pays off by the end.  The only thing I regret is that the extra bloody footage - in the eye gouging and hand impaling scenes - found on the old VHS tape was not included in the Director's Cut.  Which means that this is not fully the Director's Cut: the material was left out to garner the sacred, almighty "R" rating upon the film's re-release, as it was the first time around.  One would think it would have been restored on DVD, but Warner, with their predictable spinelessness and artistic ineptitude, decided against it.  They probably rationalized it by saying to themselves that Ridley Scott would have wanted it that way.  Can anyone say "Eyes Wide Shut"?

The fact that there are viewers course enough to value the "theatrical cut" and loathe the improved and definitive edit of the film may only go to show that Hollywood may not be underestimating their intelligence and artistic sensitivity after all.   And "definitive" the Director's Cut is: despite the one hesitation over the missing bloody footage, there is no doubt that this is the only version of the film that should ever be viewed again, by anyone. 
