
I just finished watching most of it, and it's not too bad. The thing that most struck me is it doesn't take very long to see which were the eras for Superman that had the most influence on Bryan Singer. He spent quite a bit of time explaining how hard it was for them to get Superman started, then we're quickly through the comics and the Kirk Alyn eras, then it slows down for a long retrospective of the George Reeves years, both in Superman and the Mole Men and The Adventures of Superman, then it blows through again through the comics and the animated series of the 50s, 60s and 70s, then stops again for a lengthy study of Superman: the Movie, then briefly about Superman II, Superman III, Superman IV: The Quest for Peace and Superboy, then briefly on Lois A Clark: The New Adventures of Superman and Superman: The Animated Series, and then we slow down again for a lengthy study of Smallville, and then it becomes a big commercial for Superman Returns. 

Or at least that's how I perceived it. Singer's got great respect for George Reeves, Superman: The Movie (and Christopher Reeve), and Smallville ... and that's pretty much it. Most anything else, he quickly blew through as if it were completely non-consequential. Well, except for his own movie, but I expected that part; produced by Bryan Singer and narrated by Kevin Spacey, you'd have to be pretty stupid not to realize that at least a chunk of it would be dedicated to selling the new movie. I had to turn it off at that point. Not that I disliked Superman Returns, but as soon as Kevin Spacey said how the actors in Superman Returns were "perfect" for their roles and then began discussing way-too-young Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane, I started getting nausiated. 

I will give credit, they were remarkably honest with their assessments of the various projects. I loved it when Annette O'Toole, a self-avowed fan of the character who played Lana Lang in Superman III and Martha Kent on Smallville, expresses shock that there was actually a Superman IV ("There was a Superman IV!? I never saw that one!" - she didn't miss much); I thought it was refreshing that though they never got nasty about stuff, if a movie was a disappointment or a comic storyline flopped, they pretty much admitted it. And I liked that Ilya Salkind was willing to take some of the blame for the bad blood that happened behind the scenes of Superman: The Movie and Superman II; it reflected well on him that he didn't just blame Richard Donner, as he might have been apt to do while they were doing their fighting back in the day. 

But I do think it needed more balance. We didn't need to spend quite so much time watching clips of George Reeves or of seeing Christopher Reeve with his sweat stains; those moments and the stuff from Smallville could have been trimmed down nicely to give more time to other elements, perhaps more of The Animated Series/Justice League Unlimited era or to Lois and Clark. There were also some moments where they went back to talking about the comics, even though it was periods where nothing significant was happening in the comics; as if someone said, hey, we haven't acknoweledged that the comics are still in production at this point, we should say something. Thus too making the whole thing feel dry and unbalanced. 

BTW, I recognized a comic from my own personal collection! There's a three-panel shot at one moment where the ground is scorched into the "S" symbol, then a hand comes up out of the dirt and then Clark appears and walks off. I have that comic -- it's an alternate storyline issue, the first time they kill off Superman and in the same issue, Superman and Lois wed (and this was all long before Doomsday). It's actually a very cool story. 
