
I'm another of those who saw this at Sundance, and all the things I enjoy about Gaiman and McKean's graphic novels were on display: the quiet humor, the intelligence, the delightful weirdness, the astounding visual vocabulary. Except that in this case, the words are spoken by good actors, and all those visuals get up off their feet and move.

It's hard to describe the impact of watching a McKean painting move and talk. There might be those who quibble about the movie looking too "animated," but of course that's exactly the point: to create a world and make it dance. The end result, visually at least, is like nothing you've ever seen before, and absolutely worth seeing for that reason alone.

Some of the people I talked to after the screening also loved the visuals but felt the story was a bit dull, that they had seen it all before. Well, it's true that the story does wear its influences on its sleeve--a little "Alice in Wonderland" here, a little "Time Bandits" there, a lot of "Wizard of Oz" over here, not to mention a resemblance to Gaiman's own "Coraline." But I'm just as familiar with those stories as anyone else, and the resemblances never interrupted my enjoyment of "MirrorrMask"--after all, it's what you do with a story that determines its success. And from moment to moment, there was enough innovation and cleverness, enough delight and wonder, to make the movie a positive delight.

When the movie came out in theaters I went to see it again, and there was a little girl about six years old in the row ahead of me who sat through the whole thing with eyes agog; then a friend of mine tried to show the DVD to her young son but he got completely creeped out by the spider-thingie. (Hey, in "Wizard of Oz" the moment when the Witch appears in the crystal ball had exactly the same effect on me--yet it lingered in memory, and when I got older I was drawn back and fell in love with the movie.  That's how this stuff works.)  "MirrorMask" was probably a little too wild to be a full-out commercial success; but I bet it's going to have a long, long shelf life on DVD as people pull it out to tell their friends "Wait till you see this.
