
"Hello Vietnam,and greetings!",says Bruno Kirby as Lt. Steven Hauk in one scene of this film. It was this scene where he filled in for radio personality Adrian Cronauer(Robin Williams) who was on reportedly on special assignment. Adrian arrives in Vietnam from America via aircraft. At first the military brass was delighted to have him grace the Vietnam radio airwaves. But they discover that Adrian's brand of humor is outrageous,very much like Howard Stern in real life. They also disagree with the rock 'n roll music he is playing. Hey,this was(set in) 1965 and rock 'n roll was dominating the music world especially with The Beatles and The Rolling Stones from the United Kingdom. When Adrian and Lt. Hauk first met,the lieutenant told Adrian that he was sort of a comedian himself. When the lieutenant first heard Adrian on the air,the lieutenant was not pleased at all with Adrian's stint. "You oughta stick to playing 'normal modes of music',not wild stuff",Lt. Hauk told Adrian in a meeting. The 'normal modes of music' refer to easy listening artists like Andy Williams,Perry Como,Mantovani,Jim Nabors,Lawrence Welk,Frank Sinatra and Percy Faith. "Would Bob Dylan be out of line?",Adrian asks Lt. Hauk and the lieutenant replies,"Way,way,way out of line!". Adrian becomes popular with the fighting men in Vietnam and they hoped that Adrian would permanently do his morning show there. The brass decides to suspend Adrian,bringing heartbreak to fans. When Lt. Hauk did his stint,many listeners wrote and telephoned about how they wanted Adrian back on the air. One listener said in a letter,"Captain Hauk sucks the sweat off a dead man's balls." Another wrote to Lt. Hauk,"You suck,eat a bag of s--t!". So Adrian is back on the air but not for long because Sgt. Dickerson(the late J.T. Walsh),the top man of the brass,demanded that Adrian be cancelled. Sgt. Dickerson's superior loves Adrian and even demanded his reinstatement. Sgt. Dickerson is transferred to Guam since his superior grew tired of the seargeant's abusive attitude. The title of this film is how Adrian began his morning show. On the very last show done by Adrian's friend Lt. Ed Garlick(Forrest Whittaker),Ed began the show saying,"Good morning,Vietnam",just like Adrian. Ed tells listeners about Adrian's departure from Vietnam. We hear Adrian saying,"Goodbye,Vietnam" in a pre-recorded message. Adrian also left Vietnam because of his association with a criminal who's the brother of a Vietnamese woman Adrian befriended. Other funny scenes include Adrian teaching the Vietnamese how to use profanity,Adrian doing a parody of the late Richard M. Nixon on the air and Adrian doing a live performance for a group of fighting soldiers while they were in a parked truck enroute to a battlefield. This film was a megahit for both Williams and director Barry Levinson. They were both at least nominated for Academy Awards. Levinson did win a Best Director Oscar for his next film,RAIN MAN. This film was released theatrically in late 1987 just like THREE MEN AND A BABY. Both films were made by Touchstone Pictures,a division of Buena Vista Pictures. THREE MEN AND A BABY was a megahit as well. Both films were still in theatres by spring 1988. THREE MEN AND A BABY inspired a sequel,why didn't GMV? Obviously nobody had any ideas,not even Mitch Markowitz who composed the screenplay
