
Tim Burton's "Ed Wood," a surreal bio-pic is one of the most entertaining, inspiring, and funny bio-pics I've seen. No wonder really since it's directed by one of the best directors around and written by two of the best bio-pic writers Scott Alexander A Larry Karaszewski (who, after this film, would pen the Larry Flynt bio-pic "The People Vs. Larry Flynt" and the Andy Kaufman bio-pic "Man on the Moon"). It's also got an amazing cast of actors, including Oscar nominee Johnny Depp (Best Actor, 'Finding Neverland'), Oscar winner Martin Landau (Best Supporting Actor, 'Ed Wood'), Sarah Jessica Parker ('Failure to Launch'), Patricia Arquette ('True Romance'), Jeffrey Jones ('Deadwood'), and Oscar nominee Bill Murray
(Best Actor, 'Lost in Translation'). Depp plays Edward D. Wood Jr., an aspiring filmmaker who's down on his luck and lives with his girlfriend Dolores Fuller (Parker). After hearing about a film being made about a transsexual, without a script, Ed pens a script called "Glen or Glenda."
The movie is kind of close to Ed's heart, because Ed likes to dress in woman's clothes. But he's not gay. While walking past a shop that sells coffins Ed meets the actor Bela Lugosi (Landau), who played Dracula in the classic Universal film and recruits him to star in the Glen or Glenda film. The movie immediately bombs and is called one of the worst films ever made. Not letting it get him down, Ed goes to work on his next film "Bride of the Atom." After a few more films and meeting a few new people, including wrestler Tor Johnson (George "The Animal" Steele), TV personality Vampira (Lisa Marie), and psychic Criswell (Jones); Ed goes on to make his masterpiece "Plan 9 From Outer Space." The latter is the only film I've ever seen by Ed Wood. While the movie has been called the worst film ever made, it wasn't bad. It's campy and stupid; You can definitely see why it would be considered bad back then, but it was entertaining and fun to watch. Ed Wood was an interesting, and quirky, guy...Which Tim Burton makes perfectly clear here and Depp does a great job bringing Wood to life. Martin Landau gives his finest performance as Bela Lugosi, he disappears behind the persona. He looks and sounds like Lugosi. Another thing I liked about the film was that it shows us the bright time in Ed Wood's life, through his first film to his "masterpiece." We hear the downside of his life through the epilogue. This movie is, in the end, a loving tribute to "B" movies that is over-the-top yet perfect. As I said, the movie is very funny. Especially, Landau who gets some of the best lines as Lugosi. Bill Murray co-stars as Ed's transsexual friend Bunny.

GRADE: A-
