
Judy Garland, Marlena Deitrich, Shirley Bassey, and Marilyn Monroe are L.V.'s (short for Little Voice) best friends in the world!  On 33 1/3 LP's, that is!

L.V. Hoff, played specactularly by Absolutely Fabulous' Miss Jane Horrocks, is a timid, shy, mousy young girl who cloisters herself in her bedroom day after day and plays her dear, dead father's record collection over and over again.  You see, L.V. and her boisterous, overbearing, abusive pig of a mother, Mari played wonderfully by the great Brenda Blethyn live above the family business, Hoff Records.

Enter telephone men George and Billy, (Philip Jackson A Ewan McGregor). They install Mari's first phone in the Hoff's small flat.  Billy is a backward chap himself with only his homing pigeons as friends but once he meets L.V., he is smitten and so is she.

Mari, always on the lookout for a new beau, finds one in talent producer, Ray Say, played by a great Michael Caine.  So great, in fact that Michael was nominated for an Oscar for his performance of the producer/womanizer/lothario Mr. Ray Say. After Ray hears L.V. singing in her upstairs bedroom he knows he has found a star and pawns everything he owns to make money and exploit L.V.'s singing talent.

L.V. debuts at Mr. Boo's (Jim Broadbent) variety club but gets a terrible case of stage fright and ends up being "booed" off the stage.

Of course, Ray wants L.V. to try again so under the influence of Ray, Mari and her friend Sadie, played by Annette Badland, L.V. agrees to do one more show.  L.V. is a HIT with her impersonations of all her and her father's favorite singers and actors. Ray makes a BOATLOAD of money, wants L.V. to come away with him, Mari gets jealous and lots of other crazy things happen with a shocker of an ending that you won't forget!

This movie was adapted from the stage play of the same name that was written especially for Jane Horrocks in mind as Little Voice.   I don't understand how Miss Horrocks was passed over for an Oscar nomination herself.  She is splendid in this film as is the whole cast of characters.

Highly Recommended and Happy Watching!
                      
                     
