
Denzel Washington plays the legendary Steve Biko in this late-80's film, while Kevin Kline plays a top journalist who befriends Washington's character in South Africa. Denzel is my favorite actor, and although he doesn't get a lot of screen time, this is one of his strongest roles ever(and you know that's saying a lot). Not only does he nail down the African accent, but he portray's Biko's renown concern and persistence.
This movie was awesome for the first hour. I could not take my eyes off it! As the inevitable came around this point, the movie turns to Kevin Kline's character who's trying to escape South Africa and spread Biko's story and message. It drags on quite extensively(the movie is over 2 A 1/2 hours) but it still maintains, enough to keep it's five-star rating in my book. There were some other flaws, like how quickly Kline's character switched from hostility to befriending Biko. That happened so quickly I couldn't tell when they actually saw eye-to-eye. The film was beautifully shot, especially for the 1980's, and I love the scene where Biko is speaking at an outdoor stadium being held up by dozens of supporters. Keep an eye out for Joseph Marcell(Geoffry the butler from Fresh Prince of Bel-Air) who has a couple crucial scenes at the end playing a character aptly named 'Moses.'
The reason this movie was so memorable to me was because it really got me thinking how oppressed black folks have been throughout history. Sure, other movies have depicted this and maybe display this better, but Sh##! To find out how black people were even kicked aside and discriminated against in South Africa was eye-opening! I am beginning to understand their frustration as a race, and even those in America, more and more. Seeing this movie, and being Caucasian myself, you get a sense of why the black brethren distrust the white man or see him as evil, and there's no propoganda or direct bashing of the white race in this film. Just depiction. I, myself, kind of feel like a jerk for what my race has done over all these years. And believe me, we may think this sh#t's resolved and straight today, but we got a long ways to go!
You really gotta hand it to Denzel. He's tackled some of the biggest black icons so effortlessly, not only Malcolm X, Reuben Carter, among others, but Steven Biko as well. He may just be an actor, but he must have some strong beliefs in his own race as well to portray legends like these! It would be great to see him start speaking up for his people and directly to his people, a la Bill Cosby. I got this movie off Amazon because I could not find it in stores, but I recommend searching for it yourself or buying it however you can..
