
I never bought the VHS tape, but when I was notified this would be coming out on DVD, I ordered it. While I'm not an amateur, I am a professional, Eric is a guitarist's guitarist. Anyone who thinks he don't need learnin' is a fool and only famous in his own little world, small as it may be. I'm not that arrogant.

As Danny Gatton was known as the Humbler, Eric Johnson could rightly be called the Inspiration. What he does is not so much difficult as it is the epitome of finesse and transparency of technique. After viewing this, you will understand what I mean.

I already know much of what Eric teaches in this session, for that is what it is, a private session (much like you might get at GIT), with a master at the top of his craft. But there is always something to learn even after repeated viewings. I even scanned in the booklet that comes with this so I can break the lessons down and blow up the individual charts for more easy reading.

If you are serious about improving as a player, and if you're looking to be a real professional, you need to get this, if only to see what true professionalism looks and sounds like. The lessons are clear and focused. And with the booklet and the new ability to slow down the examples, you really can learn to play these things. But don't expect to sound like Eric (just as those who tried to, but could never sound like Jimi Hendrix).

You are different and so will always sound different, and that's a plus. But the techniques and all that are included here are part of a "must learn" program you need to create and follow if you want to at least make a good living playing music.

Learn from a master of melody and technique, where technique doesn't get in the way of the melody, but lives in service to the song -- the way it should be.

I teach, too. And I recommend to any student who wants to grow that they should get this DVD. If you get no other, this would serve whatever style you choose to pursue, ultimately, because there is so much here that can be applied to virtually any style, whether it is Jazz, Country, Blues, Rock or even acoustic (which I wish he would have included a segment on that, my only kvetch)
