
There are so many reasons to like "Wild Things" it's easy to call this movie perfect. Although it's not the best movie ever made (or even in the Top 20 for that matter) it truly is a perfect movie...For what it could've been. I borrowed this movie from a friend and looking at it, it appears to be one of those movies with no plot and just a lot of nudity. Well, this movie does have a plot and it's quite complicated. Some of the dialouge falls short in a few scenes, but you can't argue that this is a damned good movie. Matt Dillon stars as Sam Lombardo, a guidance counselor at Blue Bay High School. Lombardo is a lady's man, in one scene a prosecutor mentions that he's done half of Blue Bay. Well, Lombardo has a student named Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards, who i've never found particularly attractive but looks great in this movie) who seems to be coming onto him; Lombardo happens to be having an affair with her mother Sandra who happens to be a very powerful woman in Blue Bay. Well, one day Kelly and a friend stop by on a weekend and wash Lombardo's car for the senior car wash and then we see Kelly leaving his house with a mad look on her face. Then, Kelly says Lombardo raped her. Lombardo immediately declares his innocense and hires a lawyer (Bill Murray). Well, then another girl named Suzie Toller (Neve Campbell) says Lombardo raped her as well. Another player in the plot is Ray Duquette (Kevin Bacon), the detective investigating the rapes who is skeptical of both stories. Now, this movie is one of those films where you think you know what's going on and then they throw a wild card. After that, you think you know what's going on again and then s*it happens. Even when the movie ends, you don't know the full story until the credit sequence. The sex scenes (the most famous with Denise Richards, Matt Dillon, and Neve Campebell) are quite nice, but surprisingly the movie would be good without them. This is a really great movie and worth the $5 bucks it would cost to buy it. 
