
This is one of my favorite horror movies of the 1980s.  It's an updated version on an old theme:  Save the young heroine from the evil, blood-sucking vampire.

Chris Sarandon (Lifetime Movie Channel staple) has an absolute field day playing the villainous Jerry Dandridge.  Amanda Bearse ("Married with Children") plays Amy, the young high school target of Dandridge's desires.  And William Ragsdale (a Hollywood newcomer at the time) plays Charley, the young hero who does his best to convince others to help him save Amy.

No one really believes Charley's rantings that his new neighbor next door is a vampire.  Charley's geeky best friend (played devilishly well by Stephen Geoffreys) doesn't believe him; nor does Amy.

Desperate, Charley enlists the help of has-been horror actor and TV host "Peter Vincent, Vampire Killer."  Equally desperate, Vincent takes the job as Charley's "savior" because he was fired as TV host and needs the money.

Roddy McDowall plays Peter Vincent extraordinarily well - first as an actor out to (wink-wink) "convince" Charley that Jerry Dandridge is NOT a vampire, and then genuinely terrified when he discovers evidence that Charley's suspicions are true.

Dandridge, upon meeting Amy, sees her unearthly resemblance to a woman he once loved.  He is immediately infatuated with the young girl. 

But first, realizing his secret is out, Dandridge acts quickly to rid himself of the problem of Charley and his pesky friends.

The special makeup effects in this film are terrific and imaginative.  The script is tightly written and well acted and Tom Holland's direction makes it work.  (Holland's other works include "Child's Play," "Thinner," "The Temp," and "Thinner").

The DVD transfer is sharp and clean.  The disc features both a standard full screen version (4:3) and a widescreen version (2.35:1).  Sound is presented as 2-channel, Dolby Surround.

The only DVD extra is the theatrical trailer.  Sub-titles are available in several languages:  English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese, Korean, and Thai.  The disc is also close-captioned for the hearing impaired.

Specs:  Running time:  116 mins.
Copyright 1985 Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.
Copyright 1998 Layout and Design Columbia TriStar Home Vide
