
I just finished watching When Harry Met Sally for probably the tenth time.  It's been years since I've seen it and I enjoyed watching it with a new girlfriend.  I couldn't get over the fact that I still laughed several times, almost as if I'd never seen the movie before.

My interpretation, after all these years, was that the movie showed how people and relationships evolve over the years and how this movie realistically depicted couples going through the paces of petty arguments, infatuation, etc. without stooping to sugary sentiment.  I took Harry and Sally as unique individuals with their human quirks that made them more lovable.  I didn't see them as somehow representative of "all men" or "all women."

Then I watched the extra documentary on the DVD which I had never seen until now.  Big mistake.  My new "interpretation" of the film was suddenly cast aside as I remembered that I actually didn't like this movie as much when it first came out.  

Over time I had grown to accept the fact that I could still like a movie and its characters without actually agreeing with what they said or how they behaved.  What I had forgotten was Billy Crystal's, Rob Reiner's (director) and Nora Ephron's (writer) agenda that these two characters actually were supposed to represent the genders.  Gag.

The views of the characters are presented as if they were fact.  Men supposedly always think about sex and can't be friends with women.  Most if not all women have faked an orgasm.  All men are clueless to the fakery.  And so on.

I can only hope that these dinosour views are only representative of the Boomer generation and older folks (no one on this film is even close being a member of Gen X) because this does not represent the reality of all humans.  You'll notice in the documentary that they only interview people above the age of 40 to "prove" their case.  If they'd interviewed an empowered 25 year old woman maybe she would have let them have it - "No, I won't fake it.  If he sucks in bed I'm going to tell him." And as for men, some of us younger ones are actually perceptive enough to actually know when the woman does fake it.

None of this changes this classic film.  That's the great thing about art - it's open to interpretation.  I can watch this film and define it my way - two unique and funny people who took a long time to get their act together and fall in love. Otherwise, I'd hate this movie.  But I won't give Reinder, Ephron et al that much power.  Just because they were narrow minded about gender roles doesn't mean I have to be about their film.

If you agree with the characters in the film, by all means, watch the documentary.  But if you see the movie as being about two interesting characters, pass it by.  Don't let a DVD extra taint your pov
