
Now, THIS is a rock n' roll show from Rock's "good guys". Pearl Jam is probably the most important band ever in American music. They are to the US what Led Zeppelin was to Britain. This concert is a fantastic representation of their mature post-millenium shows. No, you won't see a lot of crowd-surfing or moshing any more from these 30 and 40 somethings, just a LOT of great music, and wonderful lyrics. Mike McCready is quite possibly one of the world's most underrated, soulful guitarists, and his playing just sounds even better when you can see what those fingers are doing. At first, I was not a fan of adding Boom Gaspar to the shows, but I have come to quite enjoy his contributions and pretty much consider him a bona fide member of the band, as I do Matt Cameron, who filled in a "revolving throne" back when Jack Irons left due to back problems after "Yield".

There are some true gems on this recording, and the concert goes on and on with LOTS of music and a nice long encore. The crowd is in the thing from the beginning, and the band is "on" and every member is in their 'zone', and seems to be having a fantastic time...only Cameron, true to form, seems a bit "stoic". Highlights of this DVD are "Lukin", "Black", "Thumbing my Way", "Last Exit", and "Save You"; however, the band just goes to a heavenly plane with "Low light", "Faithful", and "In My Tree". There ain't much from versus and 10 on this one, with the band more oriented towards their more "organic", "laid-back", and "vibey" post-Vitalogy feel, which has turned off some of the "hard rocking" PJ fans; however, if you listen back, PJ has always had the pensive, laid back rockers, even in the explosive days of the early 90's with songs like "Black", "Daughter", "Alive", "Oceans" and the like. Just because the band has chosen to explore other instruments and rhythms and to mature as a complete organism has caused some to reject them because they don't rock "hard enough"...

And that is ridiculous, as one will see on these DVD's. This is the best representation of PJ's wonderful live shows on "official" record. Ben Harper makes a wonderful appearance or two, as does Tony Barber, the Bass player for the Buzzcocks, who is forever immortalized on DVD for not knowing the bassline for "Sonic Reducer"...

Overall, the performance is just about as tight as a live performance gets, and the camera angles and picture quality is pretty good most of the time. The extras are good, but Ed's solo guitar version of "Dead Man" stands out as a heartfelt, amazing performance. "Down", an underrated song from the B-side record, "LOst Dogs", is merely a backdrop for some behind-the-scenes footage, which is fine, but I'd much rather HEAR what the boys are saying, and see a LIVE performance of the song...

If you're a fan of Rock and Roll or Pearl Jam, you already own this DVD. If you're just now waking up from your coma, then get this NOW! Study it, learn the methods of PJ, and you, too, can become the best band in America! Ex-Frat Boys who only know "Even Flow" and "Alive" need not apply..
