
The documentary was really, really good.  They left some stuff out of it, of course, but you know why they did so it sort of makes sense.  One thing I did not remember was the prodigious mullet Brian sported back in the day.  Man, I think that thing was more impressive than Jagr's Cup-winning mullet of the early-90s!
 
I don't know that I learned anything new from the documentary, but seeing his kids and his sisters talk about him was amazing.  Also, Stone Cold talking about the Hollywood Blonds tag team was great fun. 
 
They really played up the Flyin' Brian stuff as being ahead of it's time (which it was) and the Loose Cannon character that had everyone guessing.  Funny thing is that the whole Loose Cannon thing wasn't really long-lasting if you think about it.  The gimmick was the talk of all three companies at the time but it really only lasted the summer before his Humvee accident brought any momentum he had to a standstill.
 
The accident was glossed over--he was loaded on painkeelers and told of seeing his ex-girlfriend's face in his rearview mirror when he crashed--but the fact that it totally derailed his character was not.  He knew that he could have been the biggest thing going and that he had blown the whole deal and it depressed the heck out of him.
 
Anyhoo, the official coroner's report was that he had a heart attack; just as his dad had at a young age. Of course, the fact that the juice and the vikes and a crazy lifestyle put take a toll on the heart was glossed over.  I mean, the WWE is not going to ever admit that the lifestyle of a (ahem) "sports entertainer" is one that is insane because no one can prove whether the job makes you crazy or if that crazy people are attracted to the job.  It's the whole chicken-or-the-egg argument on a human scale.  The truth is that he was an overachiever who liked to prove people wrong and when his body failed him, he became depressed and quickly descended into a spiral that ultimately did him in.
 
Best parts were reliving the Hollywood Blonds stuff.  I remember watching it back in the day and knowing that he and Steve were going to be huge stars.  Steve even talks about how the team got over really quickly and that the plug was pulled by a booker who was worried about protecting his spot in WCW.  They never name the booker but I am 90% sure that it was Ric Flair back then who headed the booking committee.  I am also 80% sure that Arn was on the committee too.  They must have felt threatened by the Flare For The Old skit that set up a 2 out of 3 falls match for a TBS special in (I am guessing) 1992 or 1993.  Great stuff though; and Brian came up with the whole gimmick.  They were so hilarious together.
 
Another great part was Jim Ross talking about how he believed that he had become a father-figure to Brian in the WWF.  That was sad stuff.  JR really had a hard time trying to help Brian but Pillman only saw the fact that JR order him to be drug tested as a huge betrayal.
 
Overall, I am going with 4 crutches out of 5.  I haven't watched any of the matches as yet but I am less interested in that kind of thing than I am the documentaries.
