
Leave it to the Coen Brothers to make Werner Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle the crux of a film noir, and darned if they don't make a good case for it in "The Man Who Wasn't There." (Typically, they put their argument in the mouth of a loutish lawyer who can't even remember Heisenberg's name.) Chain-smoking nebbish barber Ed Crane (Billy Bob Thornton) makes the only decisive (and dishonest) action of his life, and thus begins a chain of events that ends in the doom of himself and several, mostly not-so-innocent, bystanders. In "The Man Who Wasn't There," the phrase "decisive action" is an oxymoron; everything Crane and the other characters do is governed solely by chance. Everything that happens--from the wrong stranger turning up at the wrong time to a horribly timed punch in the face--changes everything forever, and always for the worse. Set in 1949 in Santa Rosa, Calif. (a tip of the hat to Hitchcock and "Shadow of a Doubt," perhaps?) "The Man Who Wasn't There" looks perfect. Like every other Coen film, it's a marvel of production design, and the genius photographer Roger Deakins nails to a tree the dusty black-and-white look of such classic noirs as "Double Indemnity" and "Out of the Past." Thematically, however, "The Man Who Wasn't There" resembles nothing so much as a much more elegant, much better acted remake of Edgar G. Ulmer's "Detour," in which the characters drift in a low-rent Sartrean hell, totally the victims of fate. But whereas "Detour" is more than the sum of its parts, "The Man Who Wasn't There" is less. The Coen Brothers may believe in chance, but on the screen they leave nothing to chance, so that everything in "The Man Who Wasn't There" is TOO perfect. In the end the film has the same overstudied, clinical quality that afflicts every Coen film except "Fargo." (It must be admitted, though, that only one Coen film--"The Hudsucker Proxy"--is ruined by that quality.) The acting is as superb as in any Coen film. Thornton--in a role that is nearly wordless except for the voiceover narration tying the plot together--burns a hole in the celluloid with his intense, hangdog gravity. There are also glittering supporting performances by Frances McDormand as Thornton's philandering wife Doris; James Gandolfini as her paramour and boss; Jon Polito as a shady businessman; Michael Badalucco as Thornton's motormouth brother-in-law; Scarlett Johansson as the teenager Thornton chastely fancies; and especially Tony Shalhoub, nearly stealing the picture as Freddy Riedenschneider, defense attorney extraordinaire.
