
Over the years, people have grown tired of natural disaster movies.  Why?  Because they all appear to be the same.  Here's an example of a typical storyline- everything starts out nice and calm, the story focuses on one family, the family starts having problems and they split up, and then a volcano, tornado, hurricane, or whatever hits, and all the family members somehow miraculously avoid the incredible danger JUST so they can be together again and make up with each other by the end of the movie.  

Well, that kind of typical storyline isn't featured here.  Twister is truly a classic.  It's not ordinary, either.  It's about a group of tornado chasers who, as you guessed, drive around speeding through the country in an attempt to get never-before-seen film of a twister, up close and personal.  

This means the film delivers the most amazing action I have honestly ever seen in a tornado movie.  Twister is definitely better than most of the similar type of films, and I remember in 1996 how influential this movie was.  I was in 9th grade, and the science teacher played Twister for the class a couple times throughout the year because it was SO good and much better than other tornado films.  

Helen Hunt plays a magnificent role.  She is so obsessed with her love of twisters that she barely seems to care about the divorce she's going through.  What's great about this is that, despite giving us a really good story about a divorce, this doesn't interfere with all the tornado action.  There are *so* many good scenes in Twister that show the devastation tornadoes are capable of that it's simply amazing to me how much time and energy had to happen to make this movie.

Favorite scenes?  Well, everyone seems to love the cows floating in the air, so I won't pick that one.  I really liked the part where the twister ripped through the outside movie theater, tearing the big screen to shreds as the people quickly ran away to try and get away from it.  That's just one of MANY awesome scenes.  

The storyline is really good too.  It's not just a story about a divorce between Helen and her husband.  There's a lot more to it than that.  It's complicated because the new girlfriend of the husband shows up and gets involved in all sorts of tornado action (against her will).  

This is such an awesome movie.  I highly recommend it.  Tornado movies don't GET any better than this.  Pure action from beginning to end.  You will be glued to your television screen hoping the tornado chasers manage to escape the devastating danger.  Twister will make you think twice if you're thinking about becoming a tornado chaser. 
