
CSI:Miami, having evolved with difficulty over the first two seasons, reaches its high point in Season 3. Anyone who has watched the show realizes that Horatio, unlike Gil Grissom or Mac Taylor, is the true star of the show. The rest of the CSIs are entertaining, but the show is truly about him. This dynamic, when combined with the glamour and glitz of the Miami setting and crimes most foul, make this for me the CSI that is above the rest.

Plotwise, season 3 is bit over the top. Issues covered in this season include a stalker murder, a sports star on trial for his wife's murder, a young woman killed in a club, the murder of a uniformed cop, gang warfare in a hospital, the killings of IRS agents, speed dating that ends in a death, spree killing, and the murder of a wingwoman. Some of the lesser episodes involve our old friend Clavo Cruz, a giant boa contricter that eats a woman, skaters and gamers, and of course, the infamous tsunami episode. The season incorporates the Raymond Caine subplot heavily in the last 5 or 6 episodes. This leads up to a satisfying conclusion in the season finale.

The season is also one of change. A regular cast member gets killed in episode 1, which quite frankly, was quite a relief since the character was terrible. Another regular, not a CSI, kills himself. A new cast member joins, Officer Ryan Wolfe, makes the transfer from patrol to CSI, and making some waves in the process. Callie and Delco (who has very little to do this season) have a tough time dealing with tragedy, and we actually see Horatio dating a rather attractive Assistant DA, at least for a few episodes. Some old familiars pop by, including Suzy and Madison, and Raymond Caine's killer Bob, who ends up being much more important in the story than we assumed. All in all it adds up to a great season, which will be extremely difficult to top in Season 4.

People either love or hate this show, so if you count yourself among the fans, this is a must addition to the collection.

A.G. Corwin
St.Louis, M
