
"Cinderella II: Dreams Come True" is a series of three stories featuring mostly characters from the original Cinderella and a few new ones. The animation is amazing --- it's filled with lush color (except for muted color when the story calls for it) and the animation looks very polished. It's really a sight to see.

The three stories in this are called, according to the closing credits --- "Aim To Please," "Tall Tail" and "An Uncommon Romance." These stories are all tied together with the idea that the Fairy Godmother is helping the mice to make a storybook about the adventures of them and Cinderella since the time that Cinderella met the Prince. The very first story finds Cinderella arriving at the castle after her honeymoon. The Prince is forced to rush away on important state business and Cinderella is left in charge of the royal banquet/ball. She has no idea what she's supposed to do and so this woman named Prudence is assigned to help her out. But will Cinderella be able to pull this together in time and in a way that will please the King?

The second story, "A Tall Tail" finds Cinderella in preparation for the Spring Festival. Jaq wants to help out, but it seems like Cinderella no longer has any time for him. He makes a wish to become human.

The final story contains the surprising premise that Cinderella's stepsister Anastasia is falling in love with a breadmaker at market. The Evil Stepmother forbids this romance, but Cinderella decides to show Anastasia that even she can have a dream come true.


The voice talent is amazing. They did a great job of casting people who made the voices sound just like the original film. Unless you're really listening hard, you'll be hard-put to notice any difference at all.

The music in this film is a combination of themes from the original and a few new songs performed by Brooke Allison. I'd never heard anything by Brooke Allison before (that I know of), but she's an amazing artist. Perhaps the most surprising piece is the closing credits number (also featured as a music video) --- a techno version of "Bibbidi Bobbidi Boo" called "Put it Together." It works quite well. Another great song is "Follow Your Heart."


For a Disney sequel, this DVD also has some nice special features. There's the aforementioned music video, which features entirely of clips from the film, rather than the recording session by Brooke Allison. However, you do get to see some of the recording in the Musical Magical Featurette, which also includes an examination of the film's score by the composer. There's a Cinderella Storybook, which allows you to read a story about Jaq and Mary with or without narration. The Enchanted Castle game is fairly simple, but not too bad --- you get to help with the decoration and cleanup of Cinderella's castle, preparing a meal and dressing Cinderella. There's also a DVD-ROM game called Cinderella's Dollhouse. Finally, of course, this DVD has the usual previews/trailers for other movies, but perhaps not so usual. This is a great set of trailers. There's a promo for the "Beauty and the Beast" Special Edition DVD in which they talk about how they inserted "Human Again" into the film. Also including in this set is a neat Disney DVD "Pure Digital Magic" promo that I had never seen before.

This DVD is truly a worthy edition to the Disney Cinderella story. It really has everything you could want from a sequel to this film and doesn't ruin the original story in any way
