
"Dr. Strangelove: OR How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb" is one/third of the films that are considered Stanley Kubrick's masterpieces (the other two are 2001: A Space Odyssey A A Clockwork Orange).  It's a satire, released in 1964 that still works and is watched by many people today. Whenever you look at a list of great movies, it's on there. It holds a place on The American Film Institute's Top 100 (#26),
The American Film Institute's Top 100 Comedies (#3), is featured in Roger Ebert's "The Great Movies," and is just, overall, acknowledged as a fine piece of cinema. The movie opens with General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden) launching an unauthorized nuclear attack against Russia. The general is clearly mad and believes that the Russians are polluting everyone's valuable bodily fluids. The only person who can stop Ripper is Captain Mandrake (Peter Sellers), a British guy who listens to Ripper's ranting in disbelief. Meanwhile, at The Pentagon, the President of the United States; President Muffley (Peter Sellers, again) assembles a meeting in the War Room where he is told hesitantly by General Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott) that the bombers can not be recalled, no one can reach Ripper, etc. In one of the most hilarious characters I've ever seen portrayed on screen, we meet Dr. Strangelove (Peter Sellers, yet again) a strategist aiding the people in the War Room. Strangelove's right hand, covered in a black glove, has a mind of its own...It frequently throws up Nazi salutes and tries to kill Strangelove. Also happening in the story is one of the planes heading to Russia to drop the bomb. The ruler of the cockpit is Major "King" Kong (Slim Pickens), a character that was supposed to be played by Sellers but reportedly couldn't because Sellers had recently suffered a broken angle. The scene where Kong rides a nuclear bomb as if he was riding a bull is one of the scenes in the movie that you're not likely to forget. Now, this is a funny and important film; But it's not my favorite Kubrick film, nor is it the most entertaining Kubrick film. But due to it's significance and the performances (by Sellers, Hayden, and especially Scott) it definitely deserves the term "masterpiece."

ENTERTAINMENT: B
HUMOR: A-
IMPORTANCE: A
OVERALL GRADE: A-
