
`Sophie Scholl - Die letzten Tage' (`Sophie Scholl - The Final Days') follows the last six days of the life of Sophie Scholl, member of `The White Rose' small anti-Nazi organization that protested against Hitler through the non-violence method in the war-time Munich. Her life had been filmed in Germany twice before - `The White Rose' by Michael Verhoeven, and `The Five Last Days' by Percy Adlon both in 1982. Unfortunately I haven't seen them, but the fact proves that this anti-war organization during the WWII in Germany, some part of which still remain mystery, has been always a very fascinating topic in that country.

Now, using the unpublished materials that were unavailable then, German director Marc Rothemund made another film based on this important episode in the German history. This time he gives stress to the realistic description of the last six days of Sophie Scholl, a 21-year-old college student who was arrested with her brother during the political activities against the Nazi in 1943.

Actually Sophie was only posting and scattering the anti-Hitler fliers in college campus, but that was enough for the Nazi; at first, however, they were not sure. Sophie is just an ordinary student, and the Nazi interrogator Robert Mohr was not convinced.

The film spends considerable time in depicting the dialogues between Sophie Scholl and Robert Mohr, and the rising tension between two real-life characters, supported by historical material and strong acting, is one of the most impressive parts of the film. Consequently the film becomes a bit talky sometimes, but both Julia Jentsch (`The Edukators') and Gerald Alexander Held did a fantastic job as two realistic persons with souls, without making them too saintly or monstrous.

If you're looking for the facts about The White Rose itself, you may be disappointed. The behaviors of Sophie and Hans, her brother, before their arrest by the police look incredibly reckless, far from that of organized resistance. The film would not tell you much about what the group was really doing before they were caught because it is about the spiritual transformation of Sophie Scholl. I don't know anything about the historical accuracy of the film, but it is clear that the filmmakers took great care to present the most accurate portrait of Sophie Scholl (see the detailed procedures of the court, for example). Because of that, the film sometimes gets slower than it should be, but still the powerful acting from the actors are as fascinating as this historical event itself.

But the strongest, or I should say, the most shocking part of the film is waiting for you at the end of the film. One image still haunts my mind, which I can't tell you of course, but all I can say is, prepare for one sequence that is more unnerving and disturbing any suspense or horror films.

Like `Downfall' another gripping German film about the Nazi, `Sophie Scholl - Die letzten Tage' gives you a realistic image of a human during the war. And this is a heart-wrenching story about one real-life person that lived an extraordinary life.
