
   Director Richard Donner (LADYHAWKE, SUPERMAN, LETHAL WEAPON I, II, III, IV, etc.) leads an ensemble cast of stars Gerard Butler, Billy Connolly, Frances O'Connor, Ethan Embry, Morton Csokas and David Thewlis "back into time only to find out that if history had not been changed by these characters the present might not exist!" (Yeah! I wrote those words! Not another critic yet it's a true analysis of this fantastic film!)
   If you loved Richard Donner's LADYHAWKE then TIMELINE (2003) based on the novel by Michael Crichton should capture your need to escape for a good two hours entirely! Modern day archeological students go into the past by way of new age technology in order to rescue their professor. ON the way and IN the way are knights of not so good caliber, ladies in distress and one man in particular who finds himself lured to a past he never realized existed for him until he is there!
   My rating of TIMELINE is FIVE STARS! I can sit here and give away the plot but in order for you, the viewer to truly enjoy it, I'm not! When I saw TIMELINE for the first time it was in order to see another wonderful DONNER PRODUCTION and Billy Connolly, a Scot to whom my heart had been lost. The character of "Marek" (Gerard Butler) enslaved me upon my first sight of him! As "Creedy" in REIGN OF FIRE I'd fallen slightly under his spell and was willing to battle with dragons that I'd gone to cheer on in the film. "Creedy's" torched demise gave me cause to end their existence. "Marek" is yet another character such as LADYHAWKES "Navarre." (Rutger Hauer) For ladies who love a beleaguered knight without armor and men who like a man's man, "Marek" is your fellow!
   TIMELINE is wonderful fun but enough of a twist to make you think about what actually would happen should we have the technology to "back to the future!" This is one film not only well worth the money but well worth the time to view over again and again! For ladies who despair of a real man keep this one within hand's grasp at a moment's notice! :-)
