
Frida is luscious eye candy from beginning to end; so beautiful it could be enjoyed without sound.  This is due to its subject, its star, and its director, Julie Taymor, who also gave us the astounding Titus.  (If you have not yet seen Titus, do so before finishing this review - it is an art director's tour de force on a par with Brazil.)

Regardless of where one falls on the political spectrum, one can't help but be intrigued by the fascinating, and certainly unconventional, people of Frida.  Diego Rivera, played superbly by Alfred Molina, boasted the traditional faults of great artists, (narcissism, thoughtless cruelty, obsessive egotism), while showcasing some exceptional ones, (art as propaganda device, naive political idealism).  His flaws were as large as his murals, but he was never dull.

In addition to starring as Frida, Salma Hayek co-produced the film and pretty much moved heaven and earth to get it made.  How wonderful that she did.  Hayek has traveled under a Hollywood curse, appearing in one dreadful picture after another.  This is clearly the film she wants to be remembered by, and her performance is note perfect.  The story is so full of pain and passion that it could easily become maudlin and goopy, but Hayek never lets that happen.  Her Frida is heart and steel all at once - amazing.

The take home message, if there is one, is that great art is never free.  In the case of Rivera, others paid the price; he fed off others like a greedy child.  In the case of Frida Kahlo, she herself paid the price, digging further and further into her own pain and laying it bare in a way that is almost unspeakably brave.  There are moments of magic realism in Frida, where we move imperceptibly from the filmed image to paintings and vice versa - if nothing else this reveals the paintings for what they were, astounding autobiographical statements.

There are a few missteps.  The liaisons with Trotsky and Josephine Baker feel almost obligatory, as if a form is being filled out.  But blemishes this small are overshadowed by so many splendid moments, for example, when Rivera's dog urinates on his painting and he responds by calling him the best art critic in Mexico.

Beyond highly recommended - must viewing.
