
Of all the many many documentaries recounting the despicable acts of mass murder committed in the name of Allah on that day, this is by far the most comprehensive and the most unflinching.  Because of this, those whose mindsets side more with that of the terrorists will find this factual documentary somewhat distressing in its raw recitation of events.  And perhaps none more so than "Caesar" in his review of Sept. 17, 2006.  If only he found at least as troubling the carnage, bloodshed, and destruction deliberately perpetrated by his Islamic buddies against civilian populations.  But, more on this in a bit.  

As regards this extraordinary video, from the perspectives of air traffic controllers, FAA officials, NORAD and NEADS, the air crews and passengers on board each of the four doomed flights, to the testimonies of the witnesses, participants, firefighters, and all the heroes on and near Ground Zero, this is the singular documentary that takes you minute by minute through the hell deliberately planned and perpetrated by those whose religion had them believing that the execution of such hellish bloodshed granted them virgin-laden heaven.  (and no... this is not the "propaganda" or view of the documentary, but instead my own conclusions drawn on many years of personal investigation of Islam).

Anyone who, like "Caesar" here, could watch this fully factual account and then call such a splendid documentary "goody-goody propaganda" "try(ing) to portray the US as good guys being hit by the bad guys..." reveals instead either their rabid religious fanaticism or otherwise their own anti-American hatred for so apparently condoning such ghastly blood-soaked horrors as the acts of "good guys" retaliating against "bad guys."  

While "Caesar" (how telling a nickname) attempts to school us ignorant Americans on our country's past political-policy foibles, yet he fails to mention the billions in financial and economic aid we have given the Islamic nations, the millions in military equipment and technical advisory assistance provided them as they struggled against invading Soviet forces and/or other foreign enemies attempting to annex and rule over sovereign Islamic nations, the ousting from Kuwait of the brutal armed forces of an Islamic fascist dictator who had invaded and then "enjoyed" weeks of the metaphoric and all too literal raping in this tiny Islamic nation while openly looting, terrorizing, butchering, torturing, and murdering its citizens while none of its Islamic neighbors lifted so much as a finger to intervene, but instead begged the United Nations and the U.S. to solve their problems for them... which we did!  And these are just a tiny listing of the far greater acts we have done for the cause of justice and good, and all of it on Islam's behalf.  And yet, 9/11 is only the latest and greatest terrorist massacre by which we continue to be repaid by the bloodthirsty religion of Islam for all we have done and continue to do on its behalf.

"Caesar" also glaringly omits and all too conveniently ignores radical Islam's blood-soaked history and their on-going policy of religiously motivated bomb blasts, hijackings, kidnappings, tortures, rapes, gang rapes, female circumcisions, sawing and/or hacking off people's limbs and heads, mutilations, and always... mass murder after mass murder after yet more mass murder all perpetrated against civilian populations worldwide, including those of their own religion, and all thanks to Islam's foundational tenets of blood lust that makes all such horrors not only acceptable but actually laudable, eternally rewardable, and thus... forever inevitable.  

True, all religions have their radicals and fanatics.  But none deliberately attract, nurture, and encourage terrorist fanatics more than does Islam.  And none preaches genocide against the entire Jewish race/nation and all non-Islamic "infidels" in the name of God more than does Islam.  And it is how this video accurately documents for the entire world only this latest and greatest mass butchery in the name of Allah that probably motivates "Caesar" most to attempt such blatant anti-U.S. propagandizing here.  And for those who would disagree, I challenge "Caesar" or anyone else to provide us any reliable evidence of even a single factual error in this documentary. 

What I think "Caesar" fears most is that such a powerful documentary as this might add to the growing world view that despite the constant rhetoric of Islam as a religion of "peace," the ever-escalating terrorist acts of its leaders and constituents in the name of Islamic religion reveal the exact opposite to be the true case.  Maybe it's just me, but I'm thinking any religion that so encourages its hormone-driven young men to blow themselves up with as many "infidels" as they can so as to spend eternity in orgiastic sex with 72 virgins deserves to be fully prosecuted, at the very least on charges of "conspiracy to commit (mass) murder"!

And one thought that just hit me:  If more and more Islamics continue to either commit or condone such bloodshed and with the full approval of their Islamic leaders, which god are they truly honoring and emulating:  Allah -- the Creator of Life; or instead, Iblis (Satan), the Destroyer of it?  By their fruits are they known, after all.

And on the question of whom and what Islamics most worship and adore, permit me to close this review as also does this wonderful documentary, by quoting one of Islam's most renowned clerics:

"We love death.  The U.S. loves Life.  That is the big difference between us."    -- Osama bin Laden  
