
9 to 5 was the first film to address the glass ceiling.  It takes a look at the workplace from a woman's view.

We first meet Violet (Lily Tomlin) who has been working for Consolidated Companies for 12 years and has been overlooked for most of them.  She trained her current boss and has the bruises to prove it.  Judy (Jane Fonda) is the new girl in the office.  She is a divorcee (he left her for his secretary) and has never worked for a living.  Rounding out the heroines is Doralee (Dolly Parton in the film debut). She is the personal secretary of Franklin Hart (Dabney Coleman) and everyone thinks she is "banging the boss".

But the fun starts when Violet is passed over for a promotion to a man she helped train.  She then blurts out that Hart has been spreading rumors that he's been having an affair with Doralee.  And an employee is fired for a small infraction. This sends the three women to the local bar to drown their sorrows and they bond.

Each comes up with their fantasy way of killing the boss.  Judy is a big game hunter with Hart as the prey.  Doralee plays role reversal and Hart ends up on a rotisserie spit.  But Violet wants it to be like a fairy tale where she is Snow White and the wicked witch and poisons Hart.  

The next day, Violet accidentally poisons Hart's coffee.  When falls out of his chair and is knock unconscious, Violet thinks she killed him.  This leads to an all out comedy chase with Violet steals the wrong corpse.

The next day to the ladies surprise, Hart shows up.  The ladies regroup in the restroom but Roz overhears them and reports it to Hart.  Hart confronts the ladies but they wind up kidnapping him to find some incriminating evidence.  The find something but it is going to take some time to get the evidence.  Over the next six weeks the ladies run the office in Hart's absence.  Hart escapes but the ladies changes have brought notice and Hart is not above taking someone else's glory.

The subject matter here is very serious.  So to do it as a comedy is very daring and it works perfectly.  This is a film that many people identify with.  Everyone has had a boss or a teacher that oppressed them.  And this film is what we all would like to do to these oppressors.   You will laugh until it hurts.

DVD EXTRAS:
Commentary by producer Bruce Gilbert and stars Lily, Jane and Dolly

9 to 5 @ 25 - a 25 minute featurette with interviews with Gilbert, writer director Colin Higgins and stars Lily. Jane, Dolly and Dabney Coleman.

Deleted Scenes - 10 mostly expanded scenes or alternate takes.  The problem is without some kind of commentary we do not know why the scene was cut.
