
Federico Fellini's 1972 film is not his best, when he has 8 1/2, La Strada and La Dolce Vita to his credit. While many critics adore this film for its absurdity and plotless, dreamy structure, I found it boring and phantasmagorical. It is simply Fellini's version of Rome and not Rome, the Eternal City itself. To risk sounding negative, I shall admit that there are some moments in which it is most expressive of early 1970's Rome - the scenes in which the hippies and American tourists invade the city, the long scene in the outdoor restaurant where everyone is talking their heads off (though saying some pretty vulgar things) and my favorite scene- the underground archaelogical excavation in which the frescoes of old Roman Patricians fade into oblivion. But mostly this film is weak in that it bored me because there was no plot. It starts off alright, and the movie works well when there is no sudden fantasy sequences. Fellini is himself in this movie, as well as Gore Vidal. Fellini envisions himself as a young man studying Rome in his youth in a strict Catholic school (the slide/projector shows ancient monuments like the Colliseum, the Apian Way, Trevi Fountain and Vatican as well as an offensive pornographic image of a woman's behind) and later as a young man journeys to Rome itself and takes residence with a large family in a crowded apartment in a slum. Then the young man sees a talent show that is tasteless, vulgar and long-winded. I found myself just as unimpressed as outraged as the audicences that went as far as to throw a dead cat on stage! It bothered me that there is much attention to prostitution, brothels or cheap, slutty women. The cover on the film is the promiscuous woman at the start of the film. And for a film about Rome and Italy, there is hardly any allusion to opera or any true classical theater. The Pope fashion show was ludicrous and blasphemous. Only serious, hardcore fans of Fellini will want to own this DVD. It is a perfect follow-up to his equally absurd and sexually radical Satyricon, loosely based on the old Roman epic.
