
Okay...when I heard about The Brat Pack Movie and Music Collection I was pretty sure that it was probably just a rehash of The High School Reunion Collection which was released several years ago.  Both sets were released by Universal.  Fear not, I am here to tell you about the differences.  The first thing that is painfully obvious about this set is the choice of movies.  Like it's closest cousin The High School Reunion Collection, The Brat Pack Movie and Music Collection includes the exact same movies-"The Breakfast Club," "Sixteen Candles" and Weird Science."  The cover art on the DVD's is the same, no new bonus material with each film that I detected.

It has been mentioned time and time again that the choice of movies is a bit off.  No one even really pegged this acting group "The Brat Pack," until around 1985.  Molly Ringwald was one of the best known Brat Pack members and "Sixteen Candles" helped to start the whole Brat pack phenom but no one ever considered "Weird Science" a Brat Pack movie. Trust me, I remember the 80's.  It always seemed like it would make more sense to include "St Elmo's Fire" or "Pretty in Pink" in with this set.  This is painfully clear with the bonus music disc included.

The music CD includes the following songs-"True" by Spandau Ballet, "Tenderness" by General Public, "If You Leave" by OMD, "Weird Science," by Oingo Boingo, "Oh Yeah" by Yello (which was in "Ferris Bueller's Day Off", Pretty in Pink by the Psychedelic Furs, "Don't You Forget About Me," by Simple Minds and "I Go Crazy" by Flesh For Lulu.

Why include music from "Pretty In Pink" and not include the movie?  On to the packaging.  The packaging is very unique and makes the set worth owning.  I own over 100 TV on DVD and box  sets and nothing is like this.  The DVD's are held in what is literally a three ring binder and the DVD's are in sleeves instead of jewel cases. On the back page of the binder is a pop quiz.

For the most part it is very similar to The Highschool Reunion collection but it's nice to have the bonus CD and the cool packaging.  However, it would have been nice if Universal would have given fans who bought the previous set a little more inspiration to purchase this new collection. One must assume they must not own the rights to "Pretty in Pink" (it's listed as a Parmount DVD) because that is easily one of the best known Brat Pack movies and it seems insane that it is not included in a set with the term Brat Pack associated with it. 
