
"Student of History" is a student of Christian biased history. There are plenty of qualified scholars, and current book like that of theologian Bart Ehman for one, who show that early Christianity was based on forged documents that claimed earlier pedigree, but were written by ambitious men who sought to dominate a very wide spead of ideas about who and what those events in Judea were about. (Not Paliestine! The Romans named the region Palestine after the war against the Jews in 70CE). The fact that one man (Constantine) sought a single authoritive finality was a political move, not an act or miracle of "God." Authority of apostles is more Christian myth and power assertion, not historical proof of the varacity of the Bible and Christian claims. Objective scholarship has shown for example that a church father (probably Iraneus) forged copies of Josephus by adding the paragraphs that refer to Jesus. It is easy to understand when we remember that typewriters and copy machines did not exist then! Handwriting is sort of a give-away, especially when other earlier copies exist with no insets about Jesus. What is known about the Gospel of Thomas and other second century altnative Christian texts is that they were warred against by the eventual winner. It might have gone otherwise and then people like you would be claiming a completely different set of circumstances as facts. People with no authority like Iraneus wrote tracts condemning any other view than his own and those of his small cult. He called Arius of Alexander for example, a heretic. But he had no authority to do so. He forged documents to prove it never realizing that in the future, others would also forge whatever they found expedient to make reality for believers. Paul called it "Lying to bring you the truth." But a lie is a lie and historians can't make lies facts. So the yoke of bias due to conditioned belief must be thrown off if one is to be a true historian and seeker of truth.

The real "key" to the entire mystery - and the inspiration for all of these writers is the nagging reality of the original parchments found by the real life priest Beringer Saunier in 1891 in Rennes-le-Chateau. I have been there several times. The original parchments are kept in a vault in London at a Loyd's Bank. The copies have been studied by many and here is the problem for the debunkers; When a fraud is being perpetuated, code puzzles are invariably simple and unsophisticated. Experts agree that the codes on the parchments are so sophisticated that they would have had to have been created by a very intelligent individual - a genuis. Everything can be argued down for lack of enough solid evidence if you wish to prefer Christian myths like virgin birth, death and resurrection (actually earlier pagan myths), but the parchments remain a piece of evidence that no un objecive debunker likes to talk about. 

Dan Brown has made the subject popular again by writing a book and making a film that tantilizes the minds of many people. He also gives the public a new level of nonsense to wade through and a rich source of psuedo history for debunkers to feast upon, pretending to extend their claim to truth by turning over toys in a kindergarten class.

If you are going to claim to be a student of history, you must be objective and ready to accept what is there, not select what suits you. And if you want to answer the many very quesitonable claims of Chrisitanity and the claimed history of the faith, then you must be willing to question the premises. Once you do that, you will find that there is plenty to support doubt. Just knowing about the Catholic destruction of previous historic and relgious records along with anyone who opposed them, ought to clue the thinking person that something is up with tradtional Christian Western history on its face.

Dan Brown, and and to a greater extent, Leigh, Baigent and Lincoln have a lot more material than that planted and represented by Pierre Plantard. The discussion of the Biblical evidence itself is compelling without ever having Pierre Plantard at all. Why is there a large tradition of all people extant at the time that Simon of Cyrene was crucified, not Jesus? (Muslims claim this today and Christian Freemasons are aware of the source document- I have seen it myself). And if we really want to be factual about it, there never was a Jesus Christ in Judea. Paul created his church in Greece and the Hellenized region of Asia Minor. "Jesus Christ" is Greek. If there was a character that Jesus was based on his name would have been Josua ben Joseph and his brother "James" would be Jacob. If you dig in you will find no basis for a person named Jesus exists and the probability that the Jesus Christ character was only Paul's creation based on another person who was crucified as a rebel by the Romans and whose sect venerated his death as a memorial that became part of their sect of Judiasm.

One book of found in the Dead Sea Scrolls is the Book of Enoch. Freemasons have owned a copy of it and it is tracable to at least 1717 when the Grand Lodge in London announced itself. How does a book that only became known to the public when the closely guarded srolls were finally made public in the 1990s, already exist among a society of brotherhood that can be traced to the Knights Templar? This is not myth, but a sample of factual connections one can make if they objectively study the quesitons, culling out the fluff and theory from fact for 20 years as I have. 

I didn't just read, I traveled. It takes a long time to verify or debunk a historical claim or theory. These people who study the subject for a year and then write a book amuse me, but very well. I completely enjoyed the film, The Da Vinci Code, even though I could not read the book, because I knew too much of the where he got his ideas from to read it. Leigh Teaging= Richard Leigh, Teabing = Michael Baigent, and the GM of the Priory named Sauniere. There is a code for begginers in the book, but I am no beginner. Still, I found the film enjoyable and I even thought the book is a good thing, because I am a bit like the Leigh Teabing character in the Da Vinci Code. I believe that a lie even to build a faith is a lie and overall, the worse will come from it. Histoy shows that to be true. Religions are built on lies made for the purpose of power and control over others. What we witness now in the world is more of that with more and worse to come. It is probably useless, but only when people can know the real truth and throw off the superstition and neurosis of religion, including and especially Christianity (but all others as well) will the human race have a chance to become something besides a mass of ants bent of self destruction.

If there is any use for the historian, it must be to serve as a witness and a warning. How long will we repeat history? As long as we insist on institutionalizing lies and myth.

In the meantime, established Christian indluence and owned media produce airy debates quoting the Bible and it's own set of Biblical facts as ultimate fact because they haven't yet gone to the bottom of the scholarly bebate - and don't want to.
