
I have no idea why I had never heard of this movie before because Ronin is a whale of a good film.  I can take or leave most action films, but give me a taut, intelligent, suspenseful thriller filled with great action, wicked twists, and some of the best car-chasing footage you'll ever see, and I'm happy.  Throw Jean Reno and the one and only Robert De Niro into the mix, as well, and I'm happier than any clam has a right to be.  Director John Frankenheimer obviously knows that action alone doesn't make for a good action film, and he also knows that the only way to make a high speed chase scene look authentic is to film a real high speed chase scene.

The title is derived from the term for masterless Samurai of feudal Japan - warriors who failed their master and were left to wander in the shame of their failure.  In modern parlance (and in this movie), the term applies to special agents of various governments who find themselves quite on their own thanks to the end of the Cold War.  These men still put their skills to good use by selling their services to those willing to pay them for handling sensitive, usually dirty, jobs.  In this case, Sam (De Niro), Vincent (Reno), and three others are brought together in France by an Irish lass named Deirdre and charged with acquiring a metal case well-protected by its current carrier.  It sounds easy - ambush the target and his security force, snatch the case, exchange it for cash, and move on.  Naturally, the mission turns out to be extremely complicated, as a couple of powerful parties want whatever is in that case, and a certain individual proves less than trustworthy.  What's the world coming to when you can't even trust a selfish, independent-minded, well-trained gun-for-hire?  De Niro has to run over and shoot up half of France before everything gets resolved in this film.

The only problem I had with this movie came in the form of the thick accents of some of the characters, especially the Irish ones - you may want to use closed captioning at times to really understand everything that is said.  The actors themselves, though, were quite good, especially De Niro and Reno, who make a great team.  As for the mix of bad guys, how about three - count 'em, three - former adversaries of James Bond (Michael Lonsdale, Sean Bean, and Jonathan Pryce)?  Not only that, the script is worthy of all these fine actors.  

As I've mentioned already, though, the chase scenes are really the most memorable aspect of this film.  Frankenheimer doesn't have any use for these fancy-schmancy new digital means for manufacturing this kind of action, instead treating the viewer to several good, old-fashioned thrill rides through the streets of Paris and its local environs.  Besides filming an incredible number of scenes live, he also chose to forego the accompaniment of a musical score in these situations, letting the revving engines, squealing brakes, and numerous crashes and explosions present the action as authentically as possible.  They had to have had an incredible number of stunt drivers and stunt men involved, as folks were constantly crashing or jumping out of the path of oncoming cars - not to mention the extended high speed chase down one-way streets into busy oncoming traffic.  I'm telling you - these chase scenes are flat-out impressive.  

Obviously, I think Ronin has it all.  Without De Niro, it still would have been a fantastic film; with him, it's a must-see in my book
