
Witch Hunter Robin is a great series which I enjoyed immensely but fails at delivering some of its finer qualities throughout the course of the series. The visuals are first rate, the music (when there is music) is beautiful, and the storyline is intriguing. 

Silence and extended stares cloak the characters in mystery... so what's the problem? That same cloak covers the series in what could potentially be a series of yawns.

One of the major problems with Witch Hunter Robin is the pace. Many serious animes either take themselves too seriously or not seriously enough... WHR takes itself much too seriously. Surely the story and visuals are worth it but for some reason there are long, tiring sequences during the course of the series which are supposed to be "meaningful." 

They are I suppose in retrospect (one will notice this once they watch the final episodes of WHR), but the events in the series do not warrant such extended periods of self reflection on the part of the main character(s). The psychological and philosophical themes present are obvious toward the end of the series, and where they are not, the intelligent viewer can pretty much guess at them.

I realize that this exhausted review of WHR seems to only be about the tiresome pace at which the series progresses, but it's an important factor as it leaves many to simply drop the series half way before ever seeing the later episodes (the best episodes in my opinion).

A second problem is also the fact that there are a number of "witch capturing" which take place during the series that seem... well, silly. The beginning of the series is all about these capturing - surely after seeing the last couple of episodes the viewer begins to understand how this ties into rounding out the characters but during the course of the series this might just bore you to tears especially if a number of episodes feature witch/enemies that simply don't interest you (which they may not, the creativity and design behind many of them is poor to say the least).

In the end the series is about the characters, story, and visuals not the enemies which frequently populated much of the series - if you find yourself hooked on the main characters and their back-stories when they are introduced in the beginning of the series then you might like the whole thing.

Lastly as for reviewers that were expecting something "scary," most of the shows on Adult Swim are for adults and the anime shows featured on Adult Swim are geared toward those typically interested in other things beside quick thrills (needless to say those watching the series probably aren't into it because the name of the series is "Witch Hunter," they are instead - hopefully - looking for a high quality, cohesive action/drama anime). This is not for individuals wanting to watch an action anime however... it's more of a beautiful drama. Younger anime viewers are not bound to like this one at all!!!

I'd give it a try first renting it before you go out and spend money on it!
