
The Movie: One of the boldest and most interesting films of the early 90's, and one that deserved far more acclaim and attention than it ultimately recieved, this is a smartly written and beautifully acted film that should be seen by any cinemaphile with an open mind. And despite the whining from some, usually hardline Christian, corners, it's not anti-christian at all. What it is is simply great, imaginative and clever film making, and a superbly done character piece centered around a magnificent performance from Mimi Rogers, ably supported by the likes of David Duchovny, Will Patton and Patrick Bauchau. 

I'm not going to go into it too deeply simply because it's one of those films that should be seen and experienced with as little up front knowledge as possible. 

(Please note that I'm not attacking Christians or Christianity above, just a small, but, as usual, vocal closed minded minority that always gets up in arms about any film that dares tackle any such subject with any degree of honesty instead of going down the traditional biblical fawning path. People who will instantly hate a film like this just "on principle" and then proclaim to all that they should avoid "such trash". You know exactly the kind of people I'm talking about. They're a minority, they just happen to be a very vocal and closed minded one. And none of that has anything to do with their christianity as much as it has to do with their absolute closed mindedness and their fear of anything that dares stray from a certain comfortable path.)

The DVD: The good news, this film is finally on dvd, and with a pretty decent audio commetary to boot. The bad news, the movie has been badly misframed, which is something that becomes obvious in a couple of key scenes especially. I'm not sure whether this was done as a form of censorship (as the misframing of one scene does effectively nullify a sequence of any real nudity that it once had) or whether it was just a botched transfer, but it is clearly misframed regardless as I saw this film twice on it's theatrical run and the framing is different now than it was then. Plus the misframing is quite obvious anyway, and on the audio commentary you can even hear remarks about the film pertaining to parts of the print that are no longer visible due to said misframing (so clearly they were watching the film in it's proper framing). 

Unfortunately this doesn't appear to be available anywhere else on dvd, so if you want the film on dvd right now this is your only option, just be aware going in, and hope for a better release somewhere down the track. Apart from the framing issue the sound and audio quality are perfectly fine, and the only other notable extra is the film's trailer.

The bottom line: A really good, bold, interesting film on a disappointing and variable quality dvd.   

Mr J
