
SEASON 1: Wonderfully funny with a lot of quick wit, incredible acting for a TV series, and classic plots.  All around a great opening season for a classic show.

SEASON 2: Great story lines, very different plots, thickening of the chemistry between Remington and Laura with lots of cliff-hanger moments.  The addition of Mildred Krebs in Season 2 was the best move that the show producers made.

SEASON 3: TOPS the first two seasons.  It's hard to hold back and not watch all the episodes in one sitting.  The most disappointing thing about season 3 is that you know there are only one and a half season left of this great, classic show.  Laura (Stephanie) and Remington (Pierce) are really just starting to get into the groove of their ever-messy, non-relationship, relationship, and Mildred (Doris) is just starting to blossom as an actual "Gumshoe".  It is really too bad that this show ended after only 5 seasons.

The good news in all of this is that you can watch the shows over and over and not get tired of them.  I would highly recommend purchasing Seasons 1-3 (because I've seen them already), as well as the final set of discs (Seasons 4 A 5), even though I have not yet watched them (I'm trying to drag it out and make the show last longer!).

One MAJOR down-side (not with the show itself but with the DVD discs) is that we have experienced some technical errors with the discs--stopping completly, skipping to the end or back to the beginning, skipping chapters, etc.  One disc will not even play in our computer, which was disappointing because we only figured that out once we were in Africa for 4 months and trying to watch the show one night to relax.  It's too bad that they don't take more care transfering great shows like this to quality DVD's for years of non-skipping enjoyment.  The same disc didn't have as much trouble playing in our actual DVD player once we were back in the States, but still skipped from time to time.

Overall Show Rating: ***** (5 Stars)

Overall Disc Rating: *** (3 Stars) 
