
Watching "Once and Again" is one of the most painful television shows to watch, let along watch again.  This is not because it is a bad television show, but because when it comes to dealing with the aftermath of divorce it is the most painfully realistic television show that has aired to date.  I would like to be able to identify with Rick, but my personal situation is more like that of Jake, and instead of focusing on the romantic relationships between the adults I keep paying more attention to the pain of the children when they talk about what divorce has done to them.  Watching "Once and Again: The Complete Second Season" on DVD, the character I found myself paying attention to more than the first time around when the series aired on ABC was that of Zoe Manning.  There is a moment when she reads her parents, Lily and Jake, the riot act regarding being the youngest and not only getting hand me downs from her older sister Grace, but also ending up with less years where the family ("Scribbling Rivalry").  Anybody who has been in a family that has gone through a divorce will find this show hits home time and time again.  If you have been spared that particular experience, then I really do not know why you would want what these people go through.

If the first season of "Once and Again" is about Lily Manning and Rick Sammler falling in love, then the second season is about how that relationship has a ripple effect with their family as the inevitability of the relationship forces their children and ex-spouses to a new level of acceptance.  There is actually more abut Lily and her new job (e.g., "Scribbling Rivalry") and Rick working on a mega-project for Miles Drentell ("Edifice Wrecked"), than there is about them being with each other.  While Lily and Rick are happy, for the most part, everybody else is wallowing in misery to varying degrees, and throughout the season getting all the kids together and on the same page proves to be problematic again and again (e.g, "Feast or Famine").  The major irony is that the dyad I am most interested in is Karen and Jessie, especially knowing what is going to happen to Karen in the third season and what Evan Rachel Wood has done since this show ended (although I am equally impressed by Julie Whalen as a young actress as well).  So I tend to pay attention to what each of those characters are doing, albeit for different reasons, but with more of an appreciation of how Jessie is her mother's daughter, which is not always a good thing ("Best of Enemies"), especially since Jessie is having trouble adjusting to high school and stops eating ("Food for Thought").

Having Miles Drentel is a mixed blessing, because while watching David Clennon is always a pleasure, when he becomes a wedge between Rick and David it is like watching Michael and Elliot on "thirtysomething" all over again.  But it does inspire a true moment of vision for Rick ("Ozymandias 2.0"), and by the end of the season it becomes clear that the purpose of having Miles around is to bring Rick down to the point that all he can offer Lily is himself at the end because his professional reputation and business are pretty much shot.  This becomes important because it means Rick and Lily do not have the money to find a house where their merged families can have enough space to breathe, let alone live.  But dramatically the whole bit of Karen and her law firm trying to stop Miles, and Rick, from building their project is more interesting ("Edifice Wrecked"), especially when it seems Rick might end up going to prison ("Won't Someone Please Help George Bailey Tonight").  When the psychiatrist that Jessie is seeing points out that only married people get as angry as Rick and Karen get at each other, it seems so obvious.  

This really is a year of one step forward and one step backwards for most of the characters.  Jake is the big hero when an emotionally disturbed bus boy shows up at the restaurant with a gun ("The Other End of the Telescope"), but bails on Tiffany when she wants him to be a father to their baby ("Forgive Us Out Trespasses").  Judy comes up with the great idea of "Booklovers," despite Lily's negativity, but needs the entire rest of the season to figure out Will Gluck.  Eli has found something he likes and is good at with his music ("I Can't Stand Up For Falling Down"), but is unable to build on it as his problems with school and romance continue.  Note: why Rick and Karen wasted time letting Eli apply to the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana is beyond me, because I have taught there and my oldest daughter is graduating from there this December.  I have to tell you that unless Eli is going on a basketball scholarship, he is not getting it to that school and thinking he had a chance was a totally unrealistic expectation.   So, my question is whether the people who put the show together know this was a big mistake and it is an insight into Eli's parents, or simply me once again reading way too much into the situation.    

My only real complaint is that this time around it becomes clearer to me that Lily is really way too judgmental.  At least when she does not immediately accept Rick's proposal (another painfully true moment for me), she does not leave him hanging for long and I liked the way he found out she had accepted his ring.  The fact that season two ends with the wedding ("The Second Time Around") might seem like the end of the story, but only if you make the mistake of thinking "Once and Again" was simply about Lily getting remarried.  It really is about trying to make two families one, which is why fans are sitting around waiting for the third and unfairly final (and incomplete) season to come out on DVD
