
Spider-Man (2002.) The first Spider-Man film.
Spider-Man 2 (2004.) The second Spider-Man film. 

INTRODUCTION: 
In 2002, the first of the live-action Spider-Man hit theatres. It's not likely that the film's director, Sam Raimi, had any idea just how successful his big-screen incarnation of the classic superhero would be. It drew in huge amounts of money at the theatres, and the DVD releases did the same. The sequel, appropriately enough, was even more hyped, and did even better. And now, both films have been combined into a single set! Read on for my review of the Spider-Man films.

STORYLINE: 
Essentially, this set includes both of the films. The first of the two films explains how Peter Parker got bitten by a radioactive spider, and gained the powers that ultimately turned him into Spider-Man. In the first film, the villain is former head of Oscorp, Norman Osborn, who has been transformed into the Green Goblin by a chemical he was testing. The second film continues two years after the first left off, and features Spider-Man facing off against Doc Ock, a brilliant scientist who has gone mad due to a mixture of not getting the proper credit for his work and an electric shock that permanently grafted mechanical arms to his body. This time around, juggling the duties of being Spider-Man with work and school have made Peter Parker question whether or not he wants to continue the superhero lifestyle. 

OPINIONS: 
Both of these films flat-out rule. Seeing the first film turned me into a Spider-Man fan practically overnight. The acting and storyline are both excellent, particuarly Willem Dafoe's portrayal of Norman Osborn/The Green Goblin. Everything the first film did well, the second one does even better. I was amazed that they managed to create a sequel superior to the original film, since sequels rarely top the film that comes before them - but Sam Raimi does it here. These are great films, and the fact that they're together in one package only sweetens the deal.

DVD: 
These are the standard DVD releases of the film, meaning each one has a bonus disc of material. There are a ton of bonus features, including commentary, cast and crew interviews, and assorted other extras too. The second disc included with the first film even has a listing of a ton of the old comic books, and the plotlines of them! That's my favorite extra on either of the discs. The other features are also excellent, and if you like the films, you'll agree they're worthwhile.

OVERALL: 
I can't begin to express my satisfaction with these films. The cast and crew have creates two cinematic masterpiece, and I think you'll agree superhero movies don't get any better. Being able to get both movies in a single set makes the deal all the more sweet. These are must-watch movies, regardless of who you are. Even if you're not a big fan of the Spider-Man franchise, you may be pleasantly surprised
