
What can one add to what's already been written about the movie many consider to be the greatest film of all time? "Citizen Kane" has been analyzed more than any other movie, in part because the story behind the film is as interesting as "Kane" itself. It's therefore appropriate that this special edition also includes the documentary "The Battle over Citizen Kane" and the HBO film "RKO 281."

I'm amazed at how many people I encounter who have watched "Citizen Kane" once and thought it was just OK.  But seeing it once is simply not enough. This is true of any great film, but more so for "Kane," a multifaceted work that cannot be fully digested upon first viewing. In many ways, "Kane" is the Bible of modern cinema: you'll find something new each time you watch it.

Orson Welles' astonishing directorial debut is a tour de force of cinematic technique, narrative innovation and ensemble acting. The story of Charles Foster Kane, a newspaper tycoon based more or less on William Randolph Hearst, unfolds in imaginatively designed flashbacks. Welles and cinematographer Gregg Toland employ chiaroscuro lighting and deep focus photography to create an evocative and rich tapestry that rewards repeated viewing. Welles, as Kane, ages 50 years over the course of the film, aided by makeup artist Maurice Seiderman's wizardry. Welles' Mercury Players, including Joseph Cotten, Agnes Moorehead, Ruth Warrick, Ray Collins, Everett Sloane, and Erskine Sanford, round out an impressive cast.

The expertly produced documentary, "The Battle over Citizen Kane," recounts the factors that nearly prevented Welles' film from seeing the light of day. But it belabors the comparison between Welles and Hearst. Both were certainly ambitious men, and Charles Foster Kane is based as much on Welles as on Hearst, but the similarities end shortly thereafter. By repeating the popular wisdom that Welles' career tanked after "Kane," the documentary glosses over Welles' achievements. Welles went on to make several great films, two of which ("Touch of Evil" and "Chimes at Midnight") are often cited by Welles scholars as superior to "Kane."

While the documentary overdoes the comparisons between Welles and Hearst, "RKO 281" distorts the relationship between Welles (Liev Schrieber) and "Kane" co-writer Herman Mankiewicz (John Malkovich). Mankiewicz was holed up with Welles' Mercury Theatre partner John Houseman - not Welles - at Victorville, and Houseman was Welles' confidant throughout the "Kane" controversy, not Mankiewicz.  If the film simplifies real-life relationships, it remains an enjoyable - if somewhat lightweight - re-enactment of the controversy, with great performances by James Cromwell as the imperious Hearst and Melanie Griffith as the ditsy Marion Davies.

Back to the inevitable question: is "Citizen Kane" the greatest movie of all time? Quite possibly, though "Touch of Evil" might be even better among Welles' own films. But "Kane" is more inexhaustible, and more conducive to repeated viewing and in-depth study. "Citizen Kane" has topped the highly regarded "Sight and Sound" polls since 1962, and the American Film Institute reinforced "Kane's" #1 status with its 1998 Top 100 list. Can all the critics, experts, and film buffs all be wrong? Watch "Citizen Kane" - not once, but twice or more - and decide for yourself
