
This is really sweet adventurous romp with plenty of action and humor A I really enjoyed watching it.  I think it has great replay value A as one of the other reviewers noted you can just switch your brain into neutral and enjoy the silliness.  I found it more reminiscent of the old 60's films like 'Monte Carlo or Bust' or 'Those Magnificent men....'.  Jackie Chan rather than trying to take a leading role delights as the action-packed foil to 'Fillius Fogg' played with brilliant English reserve A self-deprecating humor by 'Steve Coogan'.  There's no comparison to the original A the film doesn't even try to copy.  Rather, it takes a silly story with silly character's puts them in silly situations and with quite considerable imagination and verve makes one of the nicest family action/adventure/comedy movies you'll see.  Because this isn't a typical 'Martial Arts' vehicle for 'Jackie Chan' I found that the fight scenes and stunts worked a whole lot better given the storyline.  Check out for instance the fight-scene in the Art-Gallery which goes to show why 'Jackie Chan' is probably the best Action/Comedy star in the world right now. There's much that's Chaplain/Keaton-like in his performance A all the stunts are more impressive because you know that he does most all his own stunts. The guest-stars are a nice treat to spot during the travels and again harkens back to the older comedies which used similar devices, most notably 'It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World' (What I think is the best Comedy ever A this is by no means a comparison).  Anyway 'Arnold Swarzenneger' in his awesomely bad wig was a hoot as a Turkish Prince no less (Possibly the poorest Arabian impression ever, which is of course why it works so well) and 'Rob Schneider' has the funniest guest spot as the smellier than smelly bum with poor career advice.  Miss 'Cecile de France' is a beautiful Comedy foil A manages to overcome a limited role to portray a luminous comic talent A I hope to see more from her.  You might expect the comedy in the film to be crude or obvious but I found a lot of it to be nicely restrained, this was in part due to great casting and what appeared to be great chemistry on set, check out the extras.  All in all a wonderfully attractive and relaxing family comedy/Action/Adventure with ne'er a slow moment and a well paced story that however familiar still manages to please on repeated viewing.  
