
"The Dude, that or, uh, His Dudeness, or, uh, Duder, or El Duderino if you're not into the whole brevity thing." Those are The Dude's immortal words he used to introduce himself to the other Jeffery Lebowski. You're probably thinking "What is he talking about, who is the other Jeffery Lebowski?", well I'll tell you in just a moment, I've just got some things to clear up first. Joel and Ethan Coen have made some of the most loved films of all time, and are one of the most criticly acclaimed film making duos/team of all time. These fellows bought you the cult favourite Blood Simple, the hillarious Raising Arizona, the decietful Millers Crossing, the crazy Barton Fink, The Hudsuckers Proxy, and the blood drenched Fargo, and now this, one of the finest films they've done, The Big Lebowski. Jeff Bridges is Jeffery Lebowski or in this case, The Dude. John Goodman plays the Vietnam veteran Walter, Steve Buscemi is not in it too often, but he plays the loveable Donnie. Let's just go through the character sketches(only The Dude's bowling pals).

Characters:
The Big Lebowski's main character is The Dude, he lives in LA, he listens to Creedance Clearwater Revival, his favourite drink is a white russian, and he loves bowling. The film is set in, as we've established before, Los Angeles. The Dude is an average joe slacker who dresses in, as what you could say, 'the hippie who likes to surf clothing'. Sandals, shorts, crummy old shirts, jersey jackets(jackets that are jerseys),he never wears socks with his shoes(even in bowling shoes) and occasionly, glasses. Let's  also not forget his long hair that makes The Dude's image so legandary. The Dude's bowling buddies are Walter Sobchak, and Donny. Walter is a Vitnam veteran and refers everything to nam'. He mostly wears shorts, a shirt with a sleeveless jacket, hiking shoes, socks(obviously), and always, and I mean ALWAYS wears his aviator sun glasses. He also has sort of an army man buzz cut with a beard around his mouth. Donny, is a great bowler, whenever we see him bowl, he gets a strike, except for once later on(don't want to spoil anything). That's all we bassicly know about him except that he usually(when bowling) wears long pants, a bowling shirt tucked in and a haircut where is hair isn't too long or too short. He's a nice guy and is usually told to shut up by Walter because of his late involvement in conversations with The Dude and Walter.

The plot:
The movie kicks off with a man narrating. He has a Texan accent and talks about a man named Jeffery Lebowski who also goes by the name 'The Dude', and is the supposed storyteller of The Dude's story, but doesn't narrate until later on. As he narrates we see The Dude in a grocery store in his sandals and the previous statements I made of the clothes he wears, he's looking at milk and tests one of them to see if it's sour, he later arrives home with his purchased milk but is surprised by two thugs, they dunk his head in the toilet and are telling him to give them the money that Bunny owes them. They later realise that it's not the Jeffery Lebowski they're after, they've soiled The Dude's rug and they eventually leave, but The Dude wants to get to the man who they were supposed to get, this is the other Jeffery Lebowski I was talking about and is the millionaire Lebowski, he's bassicly the title's name "The Big Lebowski". The Dude pitches up at the millionaire's mansion and attempts to get a free carpet in exchange for what the thugs were supposed to do to The Big Lebowski's carpet. He eventually get's what he wants but is then later called by Jeffery Lebowski to drop off money to kidnappers who kidnapped his trophy wife Bunny. To cut this short, the film is about The Dude trying to get Bunny back to Jeffery Lebowski, and how he has to deal with other problems that Jeffery Lebowski has, because people come looking after him because of the same name he shares with the millionaire Lebowski. The drop off of the kidnapping leads to all of his other problems. Walter is told about the ransom money by The Dude and decides that The Dude and himself should keep the money instead, because Walter thinks that Bunny kidnapped herself. Walter gives the kidnappers a bag full of dirty laundry that he had, so they keep the money in the car when they go bowling, as they come out, his car is gone. So they have to get the money back without Jeffery Lebowski knowing.

The film is hilarious, but that doesn't mean that it's just a normal movie, it's stunnig. The dialogue is sharp and witty, although there's alot of swearing, that doesn't mean the humour is just fowl mouthed, it's hillarious, some of the lines go down in history as some of the funniest one liners ever. The Coen's writing here is as good as ever, with excelently written and thought out characters. Jeff Bridges and John Goodman are absolutely hilarious, they're definately the funniest characters in this movie(Jesus is also funny), and make you wish the film would never end. The other things that are worth watching the film for are the acid trip sequences and the absolutely incredible vintage rock soundtrack.

This is a comedy lover's dream come true. If you love the Coens and excellent snappy humour then this is a must have for you. even you don't know the Coens too well or even comedy, then here's a film too start with. Just buy this now, or soon, or whenever you have a split second of a chance to buy it.

I can't tell you what the special features are on this disc, because I have the region 2 edition. This one most probably has the same trailer my one has. So if it's the same as the region 2 features, then it's got absolutely no good special features worth writing about
