
There simply is no more controversial architect in the world today than Frank Gehry and people have very strong opinions about his work.  He has both his passionate lovers and haters.  I am one of the very few who is somewhat in the middle.  I really love some of his work, while I find some of his work to be quite off putting.  The person in the film who probably got it better than anyone is a sympathizer of Gehry's work, art critic Claude Jencks (the person who popularized the term "postmodern").  Jencks, for whose deceased wife Gehry designed a memorial building, states bluntly that Gehry has made some ugly buildings.  I think with Gehry more than most architects, one must give oneself the freedom to hate or love his individual buildings without inhibition.  Whatever else one may say about Gehry, he isn't like other architects.

One reviewer below called this a "puff piece," but that isn't really correct.  It is more correct to call it a conversation with a friend.  Gehry asked his close friend, the mainstream director Sydney Pollack, to make a documentary of his work.  The result is a fine portrait of Gehry's career.  Pollack certainly does not criticize his work, but interestingly he does not over praise it either.  They do call attention to the fact that many simply don't like his work and the film contains numerous excerpts from one of Gehry's more vociferous and respected critics, Hal Foster.  But the point of the film is not to provide an objective and critical overview of Frank Gehry's work.  The point is to get to know Frank Gehry and some of his ideas about architecture.  In this the film succeeds marvelously.

If one watches a number of documentaries about architects, one thing that is striking is how many of them are enormously likable individuals.  For every irascible Frank Lloyd Wright there are ten you'd love to sit down and have a beer with.  Much like I. M. Pei, Frank Gehry comes across as an immensely likable guy in this film.  Perhaps away from his friend's camera he is an implacable tyrant, but those qualities, if they exist, are not apparent here.  Instead, he comes across as a genuinely nice guy.  In fact, a couple of the individuals interviewed stress that as laid back as Gehry is, he really does have an ego.  I don't think I've ever heard a person in the creative field have anyone insist that appearance aside, they really do have an ego.  In the vast majority of cases, that is all too apparent.

I found it interesting to see the shots of Gehry and either of his design partners working with him on designs.  If you are accustomed to think of architecture as akin to drafting, watching Gehry work is a bit of a shock.  He doesn't design so much as sculpt.  He and his partners look like a couple of extremely mature kindergartners with scissors and paper as they cut, bend, shape, snip, and play with variations on the model they are struggling with.  There is apparently little or no concern with the particular materials to be used.  He seems rather to struggle with the kind of overall shape, with the assumption that with today's materials any kind of design can be turned into a reality.  The film really brings out how Gehry's own conception of architecture is much closer to sculpture than to engineering.

As a resident of Chicago, a city noted for his importance to twentieth century architecture, it has been amazing to realize how little of his work has been done here.  In fact, apart from his controversial (what else?) work in Millennium Park, I'm not aware of anything else he has done here.  As a result, I have less direct experience with Gehry's work than many other leading architects.  I must confess that much of what I see appears to be fascinating.  I would, for instance, absolutely love to see his Bilbao museum.  But there is one aspect to Gehry's work that I really applaud:  its emphasis on individualism.  One criticism of much architecture has been its essential conservativism.  Much of it espouses nonegalitarian and conformist values.  One sees exceptions, such as Louis Sullivan's refusal to put box seats in his Chicago Auditorium design.  If one looks at a Gehry design, it is hard to imagine it ever becoming the style of choice of a repressionistic, totalitarian regime.  It is too individualistic, too anarchic for that.  Even such a free spirit as Louis Kahn still designed the capitol of Bangladesh.  But it is simply impossible to imagine Frank Gehry designing a capitol.

I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  I came away from it with a greater liking for Frank Gehry as a person than I had anticipated.  And perhaps I will in the future be more inclined to appreciate his designs.  He may not be the greatest of our architects, but he certainly is one of our more likable free spirits
