
When Daryl Deever (William Hurt) tells TV reporter Tony Sokolow (Sigourney Weaver) he knows more than he actually does about a murder in the building where he works as a janitor, he gets more than he bargained for. Deever is a good guy, smart enough but ambitious only on his own terms. He's sort of engaged to his best friend's sister, but he's had a crush on Sokolow for two years. When the man in the building gets his throat slit, Sokolow is one of the reporters on the scene. Deever sees a perfect chance to get to meet her, so he tells her he may know something. She goes after the story and he goes after her. Sokolow is not quite engaged to a dedicated, capable man known as Joseph (Christopher Plummer), who is good friends with Sokolow's parents. It becomes clear that her wealthy parents, their rich friends and Joseph are engaged in the shadowy business of buying illegal ways for Jews to escape from the Soviet Union and to journey to Israel. And it appears that the man killed may have had an involvement, too. Before long, the man's associates learn of Deever's gambit with Sokolow and go after them to find out who was behind the killing. More lethally, the real murderer learns of what Deever said to Sokolow and believes Deever might actually know something. He goes after Deever.

This is a tight, well constructed murder mystery with two first-rate components. First is the romance which builds between the characters played by Hurt and Weaver. These two people are attractive and smart. Hurt, in particular, comes across as guileless but he's no one's patsy. The two are very likable. Second, the situation which develops poses some ethical questions. Grades of gray come into play; it wouldn't be accurate to say that the murderer is simply another bad guy.

The movie also features some first-rate actors besides Hurt and Weaver. There's Christopher Plummer who, as usual, brings so much assurance and nuance to his role; James Woods as the best friend, always a little off balance; Pamela Reed as Woods' sister; her mutual declaration of non-love with Hurt is very funny and appealing; Steven Hill and Morgan Freeman as the two cops assigned to the case; Kenneth McMillan as Hurt's father, angry and vulnerable; and Irene Worth and Albert Paulsen as Weaver's parents, people who love her but, especially the mother, always put responsibilities and obligations into the love. They all are very good.

I like this movie a lot. The DVD picture looks fine. There are no extras to speak of
