
 SPOILERS

 When Star Trek's production crew started falling behind in both schedule and budgets during the first season, they came up with the brilliant idea of using the unsold The Cage pilot as the basis for a two part episode. The result: One of the most important and brilliant Treks ever done!

Everyone knows the basic plot by now: Spock kidnaps his crippled former Captain, and hijacks the Enterprise, and sets course for the one forbidden planet in all The Federation. He eventually is court-martialed en route, and presents as his evidence an unusally detailed account of the Enterprise's visit to Talos IV 13 years prior. 

THIS is the episode which cements Spock's character forever: the supposedly emotionless Vulcan, who demonstrates more passion and loyalty than most humans. Leonard Nimoy's performance is one of his best as Spock : initially seeming as though Spock had gone crazy almost, kidnapping Pike, using false computer tapes and voices to convince people that the ship is under 'secret orders', all sorts of indications SOMEthing must be wrong with Spock...until after the Talosian's plan is revealed,where it is found THEY have been manipulating events all along, and Spock returns to his stoic self.....except..when leaving the briefing room with Pike for the last time, his head bowed, shoulders slumped.

Shatner's understated performance in this has been sloughed off in some circles. I say :'unfair'...Frankly, it is PERFECT for the events - all during these events, Kirk acts rather stunned at all these events: His friend and 1st Officer has seemingly gone crazy and hijacked his ship, he almost dies going after him in a shutle, THEN he is releived of command for all of this! By the time the Talosians supposedly abandon Spock and forces the trial board to take a vote, even Kirk is convinced Spock should be put away.But..at the end..is able to smile when the Talosian shows him the 'rejuvenated' Pike happy again at last.

All of these performances are directed with care by Marc Daniels, the veteran TV director who was at the helm of the 'envelope'. They make an deliberate  point of cutting to the more mature, unemotional Spock during the famous 'laughing' scene,and you can ALMOST see a flicker of 'was I THAT emotional?' cross his face!

The makeup used on Sean Kenney, the 'substitute' Captain Pike (Jeffery Hunter was unavailable),might be some of the best ever done for any Trek: it holds up totally through repeated cuts back and forth from the pilot footage: you are totally convinced this is an older, horribly maimed Jeffrey Hunter! 

Some small parts of The Cage are cut: some shots of Pike's fellow 'zoo-mates', some VERY sexist lines about 'women on the bridge', and the obligatory 'aliens running through the computer' scene. None of these are very important to the plot of EITHER the pilot or the envelope. 

And just to add some trivia: 

Part II of The Menagerie was the highest rated episode of Star trek ever in prime time! 

Actor Malachi Throne had been the original voice of the Talosian Keeper in the pilot. Since he was cast as Commodore Mendez, voice artist Vic Perrin was dubbed in as The Keeper.

As per the Director's Guild, Marc Daniels was credited as director for Part I, while the director of The Cage, Robert (Mr Pilot) Butler, was given the screen credit for Part II.

The Menagerie is amazing experience from start to finish!
