
    *TALES FROM THE CRYPT THEME MUSIC PLAYS, AS THE CAMERA SHOOTS THROUGH A SPOOKY HAUNTED MANSION. THE CAMERA REACHES THE BASEMENT, OUT POPS THE CRYPT KEEPER WITH HIS MENACING CACKLE* "TALES FROM THE CRYPT". This show is one of my all-time favorites. I used to sit in front of the television with my father every Saturday night when this  show came on. The stories in this show were so amazing and so well done, that I couldn't help myself when I became hooked on the show, and I was only four-years-old when this show debuted with its first season back in 1989.

     TALES FROM THE CRYPT takes you on a journey through six horrifying episodes, each one scaring you in one way or another. This here first season only includes six episodes, but all six are very terrifying, and many ways, rather comical as well.

#1: THE MAN WHO WAS DEATH (aired June 10, 1989)
   This spook-tacular episode shows a man named NILES (played by William Saddler, who would then go on to take the male lead role in the first-ever TALES FROM THE CRYPT motion picture entitled, TALES FROM THE CRYPT presents DEMON KNIGHT), who has spent the last twelve years of his life shooting electricity into prisoners, sending out their life sentences. But now, a law has been passed to ban the life sentence, for even executing murderers and law breakers is "Still Murder Within The Eyes of God". Niles then appears in a few court cases where the defendants happen to be let off the hook, despite the fact they are indeed guilty. This leaves Niles to privately execute the defendants, where it leads Niles into his own arrest, where is then in for a "Shocking" surprise.

#2: AND ALL THROUGH THE HOUSE (aired June 10, 1989)
  In this chilling Holiday-filled episode, a woman murders her husband in cold blood on Christmas Eve. As she tries to bury the body outside in the freezing cold snow, she neglects to hear on the news that an escaped mental patient as broken out of the sanitarium, and has already killed four women in the county. The news has even stated that the patient has been seen wearing a Santa Claus suit, a suit he had stolen from one his victims. The mental patient stumbles upon this woman, practically killing her, but she seems to have killed him by stabbing him in the stomach. As she gets a hold of the police on the phone, she is told by the police to look around for a weapon to use, since she has informed the police that the patient has gotten up and entered her house, after she stabbed him the stomach. She goes into the closet to get her gun, but the door locks. As she pounds on the door, trying to get out, the patient climbs up to the woman's daughter's bedroom, with the daughter thinking that's it the real Santa. She busts through the closet and finds her daughter safe and sound, holding "Santa" by the hand, with her mother screaming at the top of her lungs.

#3: DIG THAT CAT...HE'S REAL GONE (aired June 10, 1989)
   In this brilliant episode, ULRIC (played by Joe Pantoliano) comes across a seemingly mad scientist, who gives Ulric an offer he can't refuse: Have the gland of a cat inserted into his brain to give him the ability to resurrected after he is killed. The surgery goes successful, where Ulric becomes a classic act at the county fairs. He has been drowned, shot in the heart with an arrow, electrocuted, and many more. But he just kept coming back from beyond the grave. Here is now about to pull his next death stunt: being buried alive for twelve hours, and then resurrected. But...wait a minute. Ulric has already died and been resurrected...nine times.

#4: ONLY SIN DEEP (aired June 14, 1989)
   In this sexy and beauty-filled episode, SYLVIA (played by Lea Thompson) is a 21-year-old hooker, looking to quit the business and clean up her act. She does so with the money she has robbed from her pimp...after killing him. She goes into a pawn shop to have her pimp's jewelery, but the pawner reveals that the jewelery isn't worth crap, for the jewelery is "hot". But he's willing to pay Sylvia $10,000 for her "beauty". He informs her that if she wants her beauty back, she has to get it back within a four-month period. Okay, whatever, you old whack-job. Sylvia goes through with the pawning of her beauty and goes out on her way with her 10 Gs. She meets a playboy and begins dating him. Four months go by and Sylvia begins seeing some odd changes in her complextion. She goes to a dermotologist, but he cannot seem to figure out what is wrong, where it is then and there that Sylvia figures out that the pawner was not kidding. She demands her beauty back, but the pawner will only sell it back to her for...$100,000. She kills her playboy boyfriend, and scrapes up every piece of jewelery he ever bought her. She gets her beauty back, which was formed in a plaster-of-paris head of her own self, but it ends up being smashed to pieces when one of Sylvia's hooker friends bumps right into her, not recognizing Sylvia, for she has become so hideous, like an old, disgusting haggard witch.

#5: LOVER, COME HACK TO ME (aired June 21, 1989)
  In this ciller, Charles has found Peggy, the perfect girl. Peggy has found Charles, the perfect man. The two have married, against the wishes of Peggy's aunt. On their way to their honeymoon, they are stranded into an old house, where they have to succomb into spending their wedding night in this disgusting old house. Peggy wants her wedding night to be perfect, so consumating their marriage on the sofa is not a good idea. Comsumating their marriage in a bed is much better. They do their thing, and they both fall asleep, where Peggy says in a sort of joking way that they've made a child, a little girl. Charles falls asleep, but he wakes up to the sound of Peggy entering the house with another man. He watches his own wife screw another guy on the sofa, where they guy falls asleep, while Peggy tells him of how they've just conceived a child, a little girl. She then picks up an axe, leans over to the man's ear and simply says, "Peggy would make a great name for our little girl, wouldn't it?" She swings the axe and kills the guy she just had sex with. Charles wakes up in horror, for it was only a nightmare, but it was a nightmare about a true fact: Peggy's mother had killed her Peggy's father on their wedding night, after they had consumated their marriage, where her mother and father had just conceived Peggy that very night. Peggy's mother said she did it to consume the perfect love to a perfect wedding night. But Charles claims that he didn't marry Peggy out of love. He married her for her money, and he was going to murder Peggy that very night, report to the police that an accident had happened, where he would inherit the money, but Peggy has made a change in plans: continuing her family tradition, which is: Murdering her husband to consume the perfect love on the perfect wedding night, after consumating their marriage, which led into the conception of their daughter.

#6: COLLECTION COMPLETED (aired June 28, 1989)
  In this lame episode, Audrey Lindley (the actress best known for her role as HELEN ROPER on Three's Company) plays a lonely housewife, who's husband named JULIAS has just retired. One the first day of his retirement, her husband is already going crazy because of all the animals his wife has in the house. She continues to claim that she does not want to get rid of the animals because they are her "friends", they've kept her company all those years her husband had spent working, instead of paying more attention to his own wife. Days go by, and the house is seeing less and less of the animals. Julias then shows his wife where all the animals have gone: in his basement...stuffed. The last animal to be taken care of is a cat, but Julias' wife bashes his skull in. But the next afternoon, she is sitting in the living room with Julias, talking to him as if he were still alive. Their friendly next-door neighbor drops by, where he discovers Julias' stuffed body.

    This was a great season. But stay tuned, Boils and Ghouls. There's plenty more terrifying tales to come in the following seasons *CRYPT KEEPER'S CACKLE
