
This is a movie you'll want to watch over again--a number of times for a number of reasons.  For one, you'll want to catch all the laughs that flew by too quick on the first go-round (perhaps the second and third go-round, too, and even beyond).  As the legend goes, with the exception of a few brief, well-timed breathers, director Howard Hawks has the actors assailing us with about 240 words for each of this film's sleek 92 minutes, with the jokes sometimes launched from multiple conversations at once.

I agree with the Amazon review: you'll also want to give the movie at least one look devoted exclusively to Cary Grant's performance as master-manipulator news chief Walter Burns.  One can only marvel at his hair-trigger, incendiary reactions to each situational development.  The big scoop involves the politically-driven gallows sentence of a meek little "anarchist" (John Qualen) alleged to have killed a black cop, and while ferociously tracking the story, Burns chats up and tries to reclaim his ace reporter, Hildy Johnson.

The movie is based on Hecht and MacArthur's long-running Broadway hit The Front Page.  An early talk-era version had been produced already for the silver screen, but Hawks decided his inspired idea of switching Hildy's gender to that of a woman justified another remake.  He was right: of the various stage and film renditions, His Girl Friday is regarded as the most powerful and effective use of the source material.

Handed this basic premise, scriptwriter Charles Lederer added one last layer of complexity: Hildy Johnson is not just any woman, but Walter Burns's ex-wife.  As the action begins, she is bidding the chaotic, cynical, wise-cracking reporter's life farewell, having decided to settle down and marry an insurance man named Bruce Baldwin (Ralph Bellamy, perfect as the earnest, slow-witted foil to Grant).

On hearing this, Burns hatches his plot.  If he can pull off the entire stunt, he will beat the competition to a story on local corruption.  By getting Hildy involved again, and helping her realize the Hawksian principle that "you are what you do," he will also regain a writer of rare talent.  These two goals alone would be enough to keep his motivation interesting.  But of course the chance to win back his ex-wife brings a sexy tension to the frantic, lunatic action.

The one thing you have to do is reserve a viewing strictly for watching Rosalind Russell as Hildy.  In the part that literally no one wanted (Jean Arthur, Claudette Colbert, Irene Dunne and Carole Lombard all turned it down), Russell succeeds in making His Girl Friday her movie.  Among her colleagues in the press room (played by a sterling ensemble of character actors), she's got the hard-nosed wit to sound right at home with the boys.  At the same time, she stands out--not just in her bold pinstriped outfits, but with her unflagging dedication to the raw, key-punching grind of the professional "news man."  When necessary she dashes from telephone to telephone, one raging conversation to the next, yet in the movie's moment of high pathos, she manages to be absoltuely riveting while barely raising her voice above a whisper.  Finally, of course, her kinetic scenes with Grant are what earn this movie its reputation as one of the fastest, funniest zingers ever produced.

My sole warning: fork over the dough for Columbia's authorized release.  The cheap-o's--and there are several on the market--are pretty shabby in terms of image and sound quality.  With so much re-watching in your future, do what it takes to get the best version
