
There were loads of Swords A Sorcery films coming out in the 80's, most of them low budget garbage.  But this was actually one of the better films.  It had a lot wrong with it, but it had enough good to make it enjoyable.  Richard Lynch is Cromwell who plots against the throne, takes power as the young prince Talon (lee Horsley) eventually will grow up to challenge the tyrant.  Pretty standard stuff.  But it's exectuted well.  The opening is stolen directly from Robert E. Howard's Conan Story "The Hour of the Dragon" as Cromwell and his conspirators, including a witch, find an ancient tomb and revive a powerful, ancient sorcerer.  In the Conan story the sorcerer's name was Zaltotun.  In this movie, the name is Xusia.  Mere coincidence?  I think not.  But Xusia is played well be the towering Richard Moll (of Night Court fame).  He's suitably imposing and evil, as he quickly tears the heart out of the witch who helped restore him to life.  Unfortunately Xusia doesn't get enough screen time.

Lynch always does a good job in the role of the villain and does so here, too.  Horsley plays his role clearly more influenced by Errol Flynn in Robin Hood than by Conan.  He's a fun-loving reveling rogue leading a band of rogues hoping to take back the throne.  He is eventually captured and Cromwell has him nailed to a cross, although it's an "X" cross so as to not upset anyone with religious symbolism.  Again, this is a scene lifted from a Conan story "A Witch Shall be Born" when Conan was nailed to a cross.  Only Conan had to be rescued by desert raiders while Talon, actually pulls the nails out of his own hands and gets up to fight immediately.  Now, I'm no doctor but I'm guessing that someone who had a 4" nail driven through their palms is NOT going to be able to pickup and handle a sword but, ok, it's fantasy so I'll buy it.

Still, despite some shortcomings, this is an enjoyable little diversion.  The ending Credits even gave the title of a sequel which never materialized
