
Threshold starring Carla Gugino (Special guest Catherine Bell episode #11 Outbreak): 
i loved this show. i liked it when it was on CBS and i like it even more now that i got the dvd's with the unaired shows to at least try to bring it to some sense of a conclusion. 
Carla Gugino was very good (as usual)playing a strong woman named Dr. Molley Anne Caffrey a contingency analayst who's job it is to come up with worst case scenarios for any natural or man-made disaters. (earthquake,hurricanes, WWIII, epidemics, worldwide finacial depression) you get the picture. the one she is called upon for is for a scenario named "Threshold" (hence the name of the show). Threshold - is the contengency plan for alien invasion. her job is now to put the plan in motion. to quickly assemble a team made up of a physian, a mathmatican/linguist, an areonautics engineer and navy seal whose job it is to implement the orders she gives out usually via military force or other covert means and to protect the "Red Team". and asscess the threat and plan how to stop the threat. 
the actors who played the other members on Molly's team were all good and i believed and cared for them all. but this review is about Carla and Catherine so i will get to the point. 
Carla owned the show, she carried it off just like she did in "Karen Sisco" 
she told a great story and added importance to a very well done show. i really do believe she is one of the best and underrated actresses in the business today. and she was just stunningly beautiful. every time she was on camera you could not help but to focus on her. the camera loved her. the beauty made you look her way. but the acting, the way she carried herself. made you stay focused on her. 
Catherine Bell was on the episode "Outbreak" this episode was about about how Molly and her team discovered that one of the ways the aliens could spread and infect people was through the food supply. now they already knew this a few episodes before but, they thought they took care of it, but they were wrong. Molley needed to know exactly how they spread it, to what foods and how long did it take effect on people who ate it. so she basically drafted Catherine Bell and made her apart of the team whether she wanted to or not. 
Catherine Bell played Dr. Daphene Larsons. an expert on Botony and Biology. who figured out that some foods were more likely to get it and that it was mainly tomatos and food like it that they need to worry about. i'm afraid Catherine did not get much to work with here and she was only on it for that epsiode and only mentioned it the rest. i was told that had the show been picked up and went the next year she would have been a full blown cast member. 
But Catherine - like Carla - was stunningly beautiful. however she does not have the same presence as Carla does when she on camera. she did a good job - but she had next to nothing to work with and there was no essence within her or her character's personality that took over when you got over her looks as opposed to Carla when she was on. Carla was on her game and stayed on it. it was her show. Catherine did the best she could with what little she had, she was not on her game. but it wasn't her show. 
Carla and Catherine had really no interaction together. the only one they kinda had was when Molly was briefing Daphene on Threshold and the story thus far. and that was done with Daphine sitting in a chair looking confused and over-whelmed while Molly stood in front of her and explained it all. and it was all done using cross fade and fade in-outs edits. i appreciated the effects - nice touch - but i would have liked to see some real dialogue there. i'm pretty sure had there been an episode 14 they would have done something together like i don't know; kick some alien butt together or Kissed. 
in conclusion - i loved the show. then tension kept me going and seemed real. 
it wasn't neardy and though it was ScFi, i really did'nt get that feeling. there was more to the story, it was intellegently done and i wanted more. but they cancelled it. the last epsiode did however give it some closeuer so you don't feel too cheated buying one season of the show. it left you having enough questions as to where you wanted to see more, but, could still come up with your own conclusions. they ended it like they could add more to the story at a later date in a form of a movie or another show but if they never do. then i guess it is still okay. 
the show was supposed to last three years going in accordance to Molly's scernario: 
1. Threshold - we have spotted and accessed the threat. 
2. Foothold - they have established themselves on earth. we have notified the public and began to stop them by any means necessary. (Probably what season 2 would have been called. 
3. Stranglehold - if it get to this point it either means we have stopped them and sent them home or they have won and anhilated us. (Season three title i suppose.) 
she never came up with a 4th stage. i guess it would be pointless. 

