
 I've been doing Pilates for several months along w/ my daily Yoga practice and it's been an incredible and effective addition to my program!

 At this point I have collected about 17 Pilates programs (along w/ my 90 Yoga programs) and there are certain teachers that have shone above the rest. For me Moira Stott is one of those special teachers that has a way of communicating so clearly and putting together such sound practices that I always look forward to spending time with her programs.

 I had purchased the four DVD pack w/ "Basics", "Fit and Firm", "Secret to Flat Abs" and "Sculpt and tone", and just this morning did "Fit and Firm" for the first time. For someone brand new to Pilates I HIGHLY recommend the "Basics" DVD, it's the single best beginners DVD/VHS I've worked with since starting Pilates.

 As always Moira starts with detailed explanations and warm ups and with the help of a student who demonstrates beautifully, leads you through a wonderful, well paced pilates practice.

 This practice basically follows the intermediate Pilates series with some additional advanced poses added in as well. It's about  45 minutes long but flows so beautifully that the time really flies by.

 Some people find Moria Stott to be dry or boring, but I find her to be a pleasure to practice with. Perhaps because I'm from a Yoga background (daily for the past nine years) I'm used to teachers who are less "rah rah" (I also don't like blaring music when I'm practicing Yoga or Pilates)so Moira's approach fits me well. If you like teachers who have a more hyper "in your face" personality then this may not be a good fit for you. But if you want a teacher who knows her stuff and who will guide you in a way that is sound and effective then Moira Stott is someone you will truly appreciate on so many levels.


 Other teachers whose teaching style I really enjoy are Hilary Burnett (her Intermediate program is incredible) and Jennifer Kries. 

 I also like Ana Caban and Michelle Dozois for variety in my practice.

 Highly recommended!

