
Up until now, "Basic Instinct" has always been that little movie in pop culture in which Sharon Stone uncrosses her legs and exposes her vagina for an instant. After watching this movie, that is exactly what I'll remember it for. This movie is pop culture staple, it's stupid and impossible to predict. As soon as you think you've got it, you don't, only to discover you do; as we we see with the ending. The movie what critics refer to as "a bad movie".
And it is. However, people will forget "Gandhi" the Best Picture winner of 1980 something before they forget this movie. If you label your DVD collection, this would definitley be in the "Guilty Pleasure" section where you would also find movies like "Wild Things" and "Cruel Intentions". It's a movie that has big stars, a big budget, and a stupid story. But this all works perfectly. Oscar Winner Michael Douglas (Best Actor, Wall Street) plays Detective Nick Curran, an ex-alcoholic and smoker, who's investigating the murder of a former rock star. The person believed to have commited the murder is Catherine Tramell (Stone), a novelist who's novel has detailed the killing exactly. As Nick discovers more about the case, he finds simalar incidences involving Catherine and at the same time he begins an affair with her. Probably not the best thing to do when you're pretty damn sure she's killing people with ice picks. The movie is packed with cliches and occasional bad dialouge that is only annoying sometimes. Oddly enough, Douglas and Stone are perfect in their roles. Stone catches the feroscity, sexuality, and glamour of Catherine perfectly; and Douglas plays the vulnerable, yet tough cop perfectly, as well. I can't see another actor in any of these roles, which is one of the highest compliments I think an actor can recieve. While it looks like Douglas made the smart decision by not returning for the sequel, I look forward to seeing Stone playing Catherine Tramell again in the movie. So, film buffs who actually know what a Best Boy Grip is probably won't like this movie; but entertainment seekers will surely like it.
And hell, if you don't even care if it's a good movie...The sex scenes are great.

IN REALITY: B-
HOWEVER, VERY ENTERTAINING: A-
