

This is the masterpiece of atheist Spanish film director Lu\ufffds Bu\ufffduel. An unrelentless, devastating, unmerciful criticism of religion. Yes, it can be viewed as a social satire, a political vehicle, etc. That's what makes it a great film, that you can view it from different perspectives.

To me the most valuable aspect of this film is the opportunity to see, as in a wide canvass, the soul and mind of this great atheist man. It is revealing that Bu\ufffduel took to the task of "proving" religion wrong and absurd with so intense passion and -I would even say- desperation. Because no one is more desperate than he who searches and can't find. But, as Unamuno would say to explain the angst of the author, it comes from seeking to believe with the reason and not with the life.

The film depicts Spain's social condition pretty accurately in those mid-century years. Unamuno explains this aspect (though he wrote decades before Bu\ufffduel's work) as follows: "In France and Spain there are multitudes who have proceeded from rejecting Popery to absolute atheism, because 'the fact is, that false and absurd doctrines, when exposed, have a natural tendency to beget scepticism in those who received them without reflection. None are so likely to believe too little as those who have begun by believing too much.'"

Another important aspect of the film is the way he depicts the poor. Helplessly incorrigible, lacking as much in money as in human virtues, and extremely ugly and repealing. It is very curious how Bu\ufffduel did not even allow any little space for sentimentality or candidness; I mean, there is no hero or anything even close to it. It's a terrible portrait of the human soul. I would say pessimistic, but I don't think Bu\ufffduel would agree. He would probably prefer sincere or realistic. The symbolism is so evident that any private school kid could figure it out, so forcibly paired are the scenes with their objects of criticism. And trying to make it so evident (and not as difficult as other of his surrealistic films) evidences his intensity of feeling, his anger, his hatred of all that Bu\ufffduel despises, religion. And not only Catholicism -it just happened to be Spain- but universal religion. Going back to the the poor in the film, Bu\ufffduel being a communist sympathizer, it is ironic that he doesn't show even a little mercy with his poor. I think the rich young man is a more admirable figure than any of his other characters. The female protagonist, the nun who gives up her vows being used only as a tool, cannot be expected to represent all nuns or all religious persons -it would be preposterous-. A case that in real life might happen isolatedly should not be used to prove a general rule. It is dishonest. But there is a correlation between his view of the economically poor and the Christian view:

"For the poor you have with you always, but Me you do not have always." John 12:8

Isn't there something of the same nature? So how can one conception of the poor lead Christians to love them nevertheless (knowing that they will always be around), and the furious atheist/socialist to despise them (maybe not to condemn them, because surely "society or the rich" would take the blame). Well, that question is for everybody to meditate on.

I wish people like Bu\ufffduel would give Christ a chance. Unamuno, another great Spaniard, says: "Note the greater part of our atheists and you will see that they are atheists from a kind of rage, rage at not being able to believe that there is a God. They are the personal enemies of God." But -I say- how can you be an enemy of someone who does not exist? 

However, this is a great and splendid work of art. But now, ending with a quote from Rousseau: "Where is the philosopher who would not willingly deceive mankind for his own glory? With believers he is an atheist; with atheists he would be a believer. The essential thing is to think differently from others."

Nevertheless, it moves!


