
One of the most beautiful and sympathetic movies ever made about wolves, Alaska, and the Inuit, I could watch this movie over and over and not get tired of it. A mid-level analyst who just happens to be in the right place at the right time (he has his doubts early on)is chosen to go North to investigate the Arctic wolf and its impact on the caribou population. Along the way he encounters a host of intriguing characters, including a crazy-like-a-fox entrepreneurial bush pilot looking to make some sort of big score, a number of wacky bit players who I can easily imagine were not actors, but the real deal, and every bit as eccentric as they appeared; and an endearingly sage old Inuit of few words but many eloquent silences.

The investigator, Tyler, is not at all sure that he's up to the demands of the job, but forges ahead regardless, played with practical flair by Charles Martin Smith, a perfect choice for the lead here. I would be at a loss and panic-stricken if left alone on a frozen lake in Alaska, as his character Tyler is; Tyler takes it all in stride, trusting it will all be good in the morning, even though it is established early that for all the fact that he was chosen for this mission, he goes into it with a deep-seated terror of wolves.

After the assistance of the old Inuit man in getting centered on his path - and the abrupt disappearance of his benefactor, who has a way of coming and going that magicians would envy - Tyler finds himself deep in the bush country and immersed in the world of wolves before he realizes how completely they have taken him over. Knowledge and observance quickly negates his fear, and he is brought to a serenity of spirit and understanding of his place in the world that makes me wish I had the courage and stamina to go out and try it too.

A caveat: there is a culinary moment in this movie that might cause the squeamish some distress. Do what I did at the crucial moment; look at the ceiling, or recite to yourself, "It's only chocolate, it's only chocolate." You'll know when it gets close; they don't spring it on you; and it IS just chocolate.

Highly recommended for the whole family.(Oh one more caveat; if skinny-dipping adults offend you - briefly skinny-dipping, and not flagrantly overt - then maybe this isn't your movie.)
