
Up until last years Match Point, Crimes and Misdemeanors was considered 
Woody Allen's last great film. I've only seen 3 Woody Allen films (not counting Match Point) that came out after CAM and before MP, but I'd have to agree. Crimes A Misdemeanors is a film that ranks right up there with Allen's greatest work. Films like The Purple Rose of Cairo and Annie Hall.
It's a perfect blend of drama and comedy. In fact, Match Point was kind of a retread of this film. The drama without the comedy. This movie stars Martin Landau ('Ed Wood') as Judah Rosenthal, an eye-doctor (I don't remember the term for one) who's been having an affair with a woman named Dolores (Anjelica Huston, 'Buffalo 66'). Problem is, he's tried to break it off but Dolores isn't having it. She's, instead, threatened to expose his infidelity to his wife. He's barely intercepted the letters. He looks to a patient, a rabbi (Sam Waterston, 'The Killing Fields'), for help...But it's not working. When he turns to his mobster brother Jack (Jerry Orbach, 'Law A Order') for help. Jack suggests murder. Judah reluctantly gives in. Meanwhile, a filmmaker named Cliff Stern (Allen) is tapped by his brother-in-law Lester (Alan Alda,'Mahattan Murder Mystery') to make a documentary special on him. Cliff hates Lester, but isn't getting work anywhere else. While working on it, Cliff meets Halley Reed (Mia Farrow, 'Rosemary's Baby') whom he falls for, despite being married. In typical Woody Allen style, the film is fueled mostly by conversations between the main characters. I liked his ploy of showing clips of old movies (as a character was watching them) that kind of went over what was occurring in his own movie. The movie is separated into comedy and drama, kind of like Allen's "Melinda and Melinda." The drama part is the Judah plot. The comedy is the Cliff plot. Although both of them drift into the other category occasionally. They both finally come together at the end. The movie simultaneously reminded me of Match Point and Manhattan. The former for obvious reasons, the latter because the endings are similar in what happens to Allen's character. Anyway, the acting is great of course. As is the dialogue, as always. There's a lot of great one-liners ("I haven't been inside a woman since I visited the statue of Liberty") and some physical bits of humor as well. If you're a fan of Woody Allen, you'll definitely love it.

GRADE: 
