
You can't wipe murder off our hands; well perhaps you can, especially if you're like the two main protagonists in The Postman Always Rings Twice, an absolutely marvelous movie of dark despair and foggy, murky paranoia. Based on the novel by James M. Cain, the movie is all about the terrible consequences that can result from unchecked desire and obsession.

The sexy John Garfield stars as Frank Chambers, a tough, enigmatic drifter from San Francisco who arrives in the small California town of Twin Oaks. Frank's a pretty rough and tumble sort of guy; he's a little lazy and a bit of a con artist, but he's decent enough and soon he gets offered a job in a diner run by Nick Smith (Cecil Kellaway). 

Nick is very eager to employ Frank, but Frank initially hesitates, that is, until he meets Nick's much younger wife, Cora Smith (a gorgeous Lana Turner). Cora is a blonde bombshell, a real knockout, first appearing in front of Frank in skimpy shorts, she's even photographed from the legs up. Cora is a teasingly sexy femme fatale, rolling her lipstick towards him in a hesitant dance of seduction, perhaps a promise of what is to come. 

The sexual attraction is almost immediate, and as the tension steadily builds, they begin a clandestine affair, taking moonlit swims together, while the affable Nick remains totally unsuspecting of what's going on. Soon Cora confesses to Frank that she doesn't love her husband and she that married Nick to give her a sense of security. Desperately in love, the two decide to run away together by hitching, but Cora decides she doesn't want to start life again with nothing and returns to the diner. 

By this time, Frank can't get Cora out of his head, and with both of them feeling ever more trapped, they decide to arrange an accident for her unsuspecting husband. But their plan doesn't quite work; the situation becomes even worse when the local DA (Leon Ames) catches onto them and their evil schemes. The plot takes many twists and turns as Cora and Frank try to outmaneuver the law, Nick, and also a pair of unscrupulous lawyers who are intent to see the sultry couple double-cross and sell out on each other. 

Despite the imposition of strict censorship laws, The Postman Always Rings Twice bubbles over with passion, even though much of the sensuality is suggested. And because the censors wouldn't allow any sex or violence, the filmmakers had to imply what was going on, so the film projects an undercurrent of barely disguised passions, sexuality, and murder. 

The censorship restrictions also make the performances of Garfield and Turner that much stronger. Relying on sharp dialogue and facial expressions, the actors manage to weave a gorgeous sensual dance together, both lighting up the screen and creating two of the most smolderingly complex characters ever seen in film. 

The Postman Always Rings Twice is a classical noir tale of love that just goes disastrously wrong. Lust, deceit, lies, and betrayal inevitably result because the two star-crossed lovers just can't let go of each other and are trapped by their desires. Cora is dreadfully insecure and wants something in life that has always eluded her. And Frank is too caught up in his feelings for Cora to see reason; he's just too weak-minded to see how warped his judgment has become. 

The Postman Always Rings Twice was remade in 1981 with Jessica Lange and Jack Nicholson in the lead roles. I've never seen it, but hearsay suggests that, although it is much steamier (minus the restrictive censorship laws), this version is still far superior, even after all these years. With its edgy character development, it's stylish photography, and with Turner and Garfield as the leads, it is indeed a terrific film and remains a verifiable masterpiece of Hollywood film noir. Mike Leonard July 05. 
