
I was reluctant to watch "Almost Famous" because I figured it would be chock full of hype...but for some reason I decided to finally sit down and watch this story...and I'm glad I did.  I thought this was a very well told story about the excesses of rock and roll music, music journalism, fandom and groupies. Most movies on this topic tend to be overly cynical or over romanticized, and I appreciated that it was done from such an honest perspective.

I especially appreciated the line spoken by one of the old-timer band-aides while she was looking at the new girls so scornfully...

"They don't even know what it is to be a fan. You know, to truly love some silly little piece of music, or some band, so much that it hurts..."  

Although I am not, and never have been a groupie by any stretch of the imagination I am an avid rock/pop music aficionado, I thought that line in the movie captured the spirit and sentiment of die-hard fandom perfectly... 

I liked the way Cameron Crowe humanized the groupies...sure some groupies and regular fans are definitely delusional, but many of them do have goals apart from sleeping with rock stars...and they do have feelings, just like anyone else...and I thought he demonstrated that well when developing the characer of "Penny Lane."  I can remember when back in the 70s, groupies were "little celebrities" themselves...so sersonally, I don't think that people should label them as tramps or judge them too harshly...besides, who knows...maybe someone you know or may be related to may have a "sweet little secret" they've been keeping along these years? It was the 70s after all...some of those rockers got around...and some apparently ordinary girls did too...fact: some of those gals just did what many of us wished we could do...and they were for the most part honest about it...

At any rate, the music used in the movie is just awesome! It sure was fun to hear "Go All The Way" by the Raspberries as well as "Tiny Dancer" by Elton John. How could you not sing along to that 70s classic?

Now that I've been reading the reviews about the "bootleg" director's cut, I'm going to have to watch that one, too. 
