
The age of the Hollywood western had its apex in the middle of the 20th century, then with the change of modern society in the 1960's, the western genre lost its allure and Hollywood abandoned westerns for other fare.  Thanks to Ted Turner and his love for American Western film making, the long lost western has been reborn in a big way.  Tom Selleck continues to impress audiences as a true western hero in the tradition of John Wayne.  Selleck is more than adequate for the part, big in body and big in acting skill.  He takes the part of Paul Cable, and turns his character into someone we can believe, like, and respect.  

Cable comes back from the Civil War months before its official end. He is tired of war and killing, and wants to return home to raise cattle in his home state of Arizona.  In trying to escape his wartime experiences, Cable runs into more trouble at home.  He finds his wife terribly embittered by his absence, and his home farm is now run by former union soldiers who are naturally hostile to a returning Confederate soldier.  Cable must not only fight to regain his farm, but he must also try to rekindle the love that has been lost in his marriage.  

The story by Elmore Leonard is a solid one and very believable.  There are no dull or boring scenes, the picture grabs you and holds you throughout.  Selleck is terrific as Paul Cable, fighting for his family, his woman, and his life.  Selleck once again establishes himself as a solid western actor in the mould of John Wayne.  He is every man's western hero. Selleck carries the picture on his broad shoulders with ease.  He is supported with a fine ensemble cast, including Suzy Amis as his embittered gritty wife, and Haley Joel Osment (of "The Sixth Sense" fame) in a minor role as Selleck's son.  Amis portrays a western pioneering woman in perhaps one of the most realistic role ever portrayed.  Too many times we see western wonmen portrayed as prissy and prim, dressed in their long skirts and blouses without a scuff or mark of western sand or dirt.  Amis' portrayal as Mrs. Cable breaks the mould; we see her with dirt and dust on her face, with sweat dripping in lines across her face, and with a surprising ability to hold her own with wagon reins in her hands, or for that matter, a rifle.  I personally welcome this portrayal of western women, as it is undoubtedly more realistic than the western wife sitting pretty in her muti-layered petticoats.  David and Keith Cariidine are fine antagonists in the fight for the family farm.  Harry Carey Jr. plays a small role as Selleck's father-in-law.

As a collector of fine western films, I intend to keep "Last Stand at Saber River", as it is an excellent western film in the tradition of the great Hollywood westerns; it's not an epic, but it is fine film-making and will please those craving for a fine western drama. I recommend it.

James "Konedog" Koeni
