
We have all heard about `Product Placement' especially in the James Bond films. Did you know it goes all the way back to DR. NO and was very prominent? In the scene where Bond kicks and tosses Quarrel and Puss Feller into a stack of corrugated cartons, notice that those cartons are labeled `Red Stripe.' That's right, `Red Stripe' Beer from Jamaica! In this case `Product Placement' was not a bad thing because it adds to the authenticity of this film. 

In fact DR. NO is one of the best films of the series. It is much closer to Ian Fleming's prose than most of the other films thanks to Sean Connery's performance, Richard Maibaum's scripting and Terence Young's direction. At the same time other elements that would be unique to the series and distinguish it from other films were introduced here. Production designer Ken Adam's sets, attractively futuristic yet totally simplistic and functional, adorned by Syd Cain's detailed Art designs set the look for the entire series making their work in DR. NO the benchmark. Peter Hunt's intuitive and effective quick-cut editing paced the film like no other at its time. Maurice Binder's brainchild opening `gun barrel' is an incredible piece of Title Design, which is equaled only by the `James Bond Theme', composed and re-orchestrated by Monty Norman and John Barry. Ted Moore's cinematography, especially the shot of bikini clad Ursula Andress emerging from the sea, is now a classic and also set a standard for future `Bond Girls.' 

We are introduced to the organization known as S.P.E.C.T.R.E. in DR. NO. What is unique to this film is the main villain brilliantly portrayed by Joseph Wiseman. He is unlike future main villains of the series. He isn't exactly what you may call a `social animal'. Joseph Wiseman's eerie and surreptitious portrayal made Dr. No one of the most mysterious and enigmatic of the series. In a way his portrayal seems like a model for the unseen Blofeld in FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE and THUNDERBALL. Rounded out by the beloved M portrayed by Bernard Lee, the lovely Miss Moneypenny played by Lois Maxwell, John Kitzmiller as Quarrel and Zena Marshall as Miss Taro, DR. NO ranks as one of the best.

