
"Kelly's Heroes" is an odd, yet quite enjoyable war movie. This 1970's comedic, cinematic take on WWII, mixes genres such as the suicide mission/action film, the crime/caper film and the army comedy. In other words, take a lot of "The Dirty Dozen", mix a bit of "Ocean's 11" and add in some "M*A*S*H" plus "Catch-22" and you'll have "Kelly's Heroes". The film features a battered U.S. Army infantry unit, which has been on the front lines since landing at Omaha Beach. All they have on there minds is a little RAR, that includes booze A broads. That is until Pvt. Kelly (Clint Eastwood) interrogates (with a bottle of brandy) a captured German intelligence officer, who tells him about a Nazi convoy transporting 16 million dollars worth of gold bars. Kelly hatches a plan for his unit to go thirty miles into enemy held territory and steal the gold from a small French bank, that is being vigorously guarded by three Nazi 'Tiger' tanks. I know in this day and age it might sound rather odd, but this is one war movie, that is not only suspenseful, but is also a whole lot of fun! Is it an accurate portrayle of WWII? Probably not. (I doubt there were too many hippie tank commanders during the "Big One") This 1970 release pretty much through its' hilarious, sharp script  has more of a Vietnam era mentality, which satiracally makes fun of both the army and it's attitudes about war. Unlike the John Wayne style war films of the past, these guys are hardly trying to be patriotic heroes, but they are just trying to make it through the war with their a**'s intact (and maby make a little profit on the side). The film features a large, talented cast, some of whom, were already stars and others, who later went on to become big names in both television and film. This includes Clint Eastwood, Telly Savalas, Donald Sutherland, Don Rickles, Caroll O'Connor, Gavin MacLeod, Stuart Margolin, Harry Dean Stanton and Len Lesser (Uncle Leo from TV's "Seinfeld"). How can you go wrong with a cast like that? If your in the mood for a good action picture with some big laughs  mixed in, then I would highly recommend Kelly's Heroes"
