
One of the productions of which he is the most proud, Robert Redford's ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN should be required viewing (and the Woodward/Bernstein book should be required reading) for all who aspire to the profession of journalist.  Redford was fascinated with the story of two young, untested newspaper reporters who worked and worked and worked the story of the Watergate break-in until it led to the highest office in the United States.  Redford's involvement actually went back to the first news of the bungled burglary, so he followed as the story developed.  He got to know Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein when they were still at ground level, still unsure as to where this would all lead, but all three knew that it smelled of very big dirty politics.  

Redford has always been a political animal, with a reporter's instinct, and several times he has been able to bring a story to the screen to illuminate the American political climate.  Earlier, he and director Michael Ritchie had made THE CANDIDATE, a very funny and acid look at how politics changes even the most well-meaning of men or women (and a film well worth your time).    It took two years of hard work to get ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN off the ground.  It was turned down by several studios, with the excuse that people were tired of Watergate, but he was finally able to get Warner Bros. to say yes, provided Redford himself would star.  

Dustin Hoffman was enlisted to play Carl Bernstein, Redford's old friend Jason Robards won an Oscar as Washington Post Editor-In-Chief Ben Bradlee, Jack Warden was cast as Editor Harry Rosenfeld, Martin Balsam was Editor Howard Simons, Jane Alexander was Judy Hoback, bookkeeper to the Committee to Re-Elect the President (C.R.E.E.P.), Ned Beatty was Martin Dardis, who provided an incriminating piece of hard evidence, Stephen Collins was Hugh Sloan, whose wife Debbie (played by Meredith Baxter) kept his conscience working on the right side, Robert Walden (who would go on the the fine television series LOU GRANT) was Dirty Trickster Donald Segretti, and Hal Holbrook was given the pivotal role worthy of any spy story:  the mysterious Deep Throat, who helped Woodward along in a darkened parking garage whenever the trail led to a brick wall.  Of course, we now know that Deep Throat was the FBI's Assistant Director W. Mark Felt, an old friend of Woodward's and a man torn between his loyalty to the FBI and the need to shed light on some very dirty goings-on.  

Redford asked Alan J. Pakula to direct and Gordon Willis to handle the cinematography, and they crafted a look that is part documentary, part thriller. (If you get a chance, also see Pakula and Willis' THE PARALLAX VIEW, starring Warren Beatty.  Another outstanding, scary political film.)  William Goldman, who won an Oscar for BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID, wrote the tight, exciting screenplay for which he won again (this was actually the fourth time Redford and Goldman had worked together; Goldman also adapted Donald E. Westlake's THE HOT ROCK, a very funny caper film, and the poignant THE GREAT WALDO PEPPER, which was out for a short time on DVD in Pan and Scan, but is now out of print and really should be seen in its beautiful Widescreen splendor.  Universal, where are you?)

The efforts of all the principals to adhere to reality down to the smallest detail makes ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN a smashing success.  It succeeds as an exciting, suspenseful procedural, as a statement on the neccessity of a free press, as a character study, and as a great movie-movie.  

The double-disc DVD set is the one to buy:  the first disc includes a new transfer of the film in crisp, clean 1:85 aspect ratio picture and sound with a very enlightening commentary by Redford himself.  The second contains three new short documentaries on the making of the film, on Woodward and Bernstein, and on Deep Throat.  There is also a vintage 1976 documentary on the making of the film, and an interview with Jason Robards on the Dinah Shore show.

A deserved landmark in film and in journalism, ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN is a must-see and for all who aspire to what journalism should be, a must-own.  In our darkest hour, when all seems obfuscated and hopeless, it reminds us that light can be brought to bear.  People CAN make a difference
