
LIL ABNER is a delightful comedy-musical with stronger emphasis on comedy than most movie musicals.  This film version of the Broadway hit musical that was based on the legendary comic strip looks fantastic on DVD in a beautiful print with it's comic book coloring.  It's also superbly cast.  The film's producers did take a risk hiring two unknowns to play Lil Abner and Daisy Mae - Peter Palmer (who starred in the Broadway show) and Leslie Parrish - but they are perfectly cast and excellent in the roles (it's hard to picture any major male movie stars of the period as Abner anyway, although Daisy Mae might have been played by a number of buxom blondes of the era). It's a shame neither Palmer or Parrish went on to much movie work after this although both were quite active guest starring on television for many years. Both are mighty fine delectable representations of their sexes appeals, as the Dogpatch crowd might say.  

It's true that perhaps only a few of the songs are memorable - notably "Jublian P. Cornpone", "A Typical Day in Dogpatch", and "Put 'em Back The Way They Was" which is sung by five hillbilly cuties including the very young Valerie Harper ("Rhoda") and Beth Howland ("Alice") but most of the songs are good-humored  and enthusically put over by the cast and dancers most of whom were in the original Broadway show.  Jerry Lewis has a funny walk-on cameo and the gorgeous Julie Newmar and Stella Stevens have amusing secondary roles. Most of the ladies in the picture are making their film debuts here, including Donna Douglas as the busty hillbilly girl (a few years before becoming famous as one on THE BEVERLY HILLBILLIES) who wants "to broaden our horizons" and is informed by Mammy Yokum (superbly played by Billie Hayes) that she her horizons is broaden enough.  There's quite a bit of political satire in here as well (with politicans with such apt names as Mayor Dogmeat and Senator Jack S. Phigbound) and the Sadie Hawkins Day sequence (a Dogpatch storyline that became a pop culture phenomeon of it's own with many high schools for years having an annual  "Sadie Hawkins Dance" in where girls would be the ones to ask guys for a date years before this was considered "acceptable") is a lot of fun.  But then so is the movie.  As a Yoakam says when they really mean it - "I Has Spoken!"
