
(Just as a note, that's the Japanese title)

There's something about this movie that I've always liked. I'm not sure what it is, but being a Pokemon fan, of course I like it. The movie have always been great, and this one has something that I really like about it. 

The movie starts out in the North Pole, with a scientist named Dr. Lund, his friend Yuko, and his son, Tory. There is suddenly an explosion, and Tory is trampled by a frightened pack of Walrein. And, as they say, after that, all heck broke looks.

A meteor is the reason for the explosion, and the creature inside the meteor is more than your average Pokemon. Deoxys, a rare Pokemon from another planet (woah, more than one Poke-Planet? Niiice.) The strange creature, carrying a rock with a gem inside, is suddenly attacked by the large, dragon-esque Rayquaza, a frequenter of the Ozone Layer. So, what the heck is he here for?

Ah, So Rayquaza feels threatened by Deoxys, and so, both pokemon break out in a rather spectacular pokemon battle. (With some pretty cool background music, might I add.) So, professor Lund flees with his colleages, and son.

Four years later, a young Pokemon trainer named Ash Ketchum, along with some friends, enter the high tech city of La Rousse, and as fate would have it, Tory's hometown. And, well, I won't spoil it from there. The plot is good, and Deoxys' 'destructive' intentions are less cruel than one would think. Don't worry, folks, no angsty Mewtwo-copy here.

Also, Rayquaza brings some nice battles into the movie. His fights against Deoxys are totally awesome. The soundtrack is also great. I really love the music played during The opening scenes of the movie, and the fights between Rayquaza and Deoxys. The animation is very spiffy, shiny bright and new :P. 

I haven't had the pleasure of watching the original Japanese version of the movie, but when I do, I'll tell you all about it, 'kay?

Well, I guess that pretty much wraps things up. Oh yes, Tory's afraid of pokemon, due to the whole 'get attacked by a herd of walrein' thing. Heh. Okay then, Sayanora, faithful readers!
