
Wrath Of The Dragon.

INTRODUCTION:
The Dragon Ball Z series is one of the finest animes out there, as any fan of Japanese animation will tell you. The series has a "love it or hate it" reputation, but those fans who get into the series are totally immersed by it for a number of reasons. Young people love the series for the fast-paced action and adventure, while older fans enjoy it for the sheer number of characters, and the way they are developed and evolve over the course of time. It's no wonder the series is considered Akira Toriyama's magnum opus, and by far the best of the three Dragon Ball series. When Toei animation made Dragon Ball into an anime, they didn't copy Toriyama's mangas verbatim. They added in many sagas and plot elements not in the manga, often as a result so that the manga and anime were released at the same pace. Toei even created movies based on the series! There were thirteen movies, two television specials, and one OVA/OAV. While not usually canon to the storyline, they are an undeniable part of the Dragon Ball Z franchise that can't be ignored.

OVERVIEW:
This is the thirteenth of the thirteen Dragon Ball Z movies. 

THE STORY:
Majin Buu is beaten. Our heroes have won. Peace has returned.

Yeah, right. 

Just as everyone has settled down, Gohan and Videl rescue an old suicidal man, and help him to unlock the seal on a music box of his using the Dragon Balls. What they don't know is that this old man is from a race of warlocks who once unleashed a great evil upon the universe. The Z Fighters must join forces with a warrior who came from within the music box to fight against this unspeakable evil that once terrorized the universe. But are they strong enough?

REVIEW OF STORY:
This is one of my favorite Dragon Ball Z movies, due in no small part to the unique storyline, and some battle scenes that are absolutely spectacular. Granted, I wish Vegeta had a larger role, but no big complaints there. There is no other part of the Dragon Ball Z series that has a storyline anything like this. The interaction between Trunks and Tapion is excellent as well. And the ending? Let's just say it stands on a plane all its own. You won't want to miss it.

OFFICIAL?
This is a rare example of a Dragon Ball Z movie that could have taken place in the actual series storyline. Right after the defeat of Buu, this would fit into the actual series continuity. It didn't exist in the original manga so I consider it unofficial, but you be the judge.

REVIEW OF DVD:
All of FUNimation's Dragon Ball Z DVDs are pretty much the same as far as content goes. There is no bonus content, unless you consider the obligatory trailers on the DVD to be bonus material. And honestly, I could have lived without them. Some more recent DVDs have character profiles, though these are lacking and could have been written better. Why couldn't get get interviews with cast and crew, or trivia/facts, something like that? FUNimation has a lot of room to improve on the DVDs.

THE DUBBED VERSION:
Lots of people tend to bash FUNimation's dub of the Dragon Ball Z series? Why? It's inaccurate and sometimes just plain stupid. They can do good dubbed versions for plenty of other animes, such as Full Metal Alchemist, but every time they've tried dubbing Toriyama's classic, they butcher it to hell. The nu metal they put in as background music only further defiles the original series. Stick with the uncut subbed track.

OVERALL:
Get it. Dragon Ball Z movies don't get any better than this.

EDITION NOTES:
It was released in edited and uncut versions. Do I even have to say it? Get uncut. And watch the subtitled Japanese version.
